Mystery Hour - 26 May 16

Three minutes after twelve is the time. And usually at this point in the week, I say, my goodness me, we need some light relief, don't we, after the difficult diet of heavyweight news that we've been digesting together thus far this week. But I think the last hour can probably get filed under hilarity. How much of it was intentional and unintentional? I shall leave you to decide, but we'll crack on with mystery hour proper. Now, the number you need if you want to join in and already know the rules is zero 345-606-0973 if you don't know the rules, then you're toying with the idea of joining in. Or if you'd just like to sit back and put your feet up with a cast iron guarantee that by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now and you will enjoy at least one laugh out loud moment and stick with me, I'll talk you through how it works and then we can all get cracking together on a seesaw. Here's how it works. You know, the newspaper features the magazine columns where you have a question sent in by a reader, and a another reader some days later sends in an answer that turns out to be true, and in between you just sort of twiddle your thumbs and wait. The question, of course, is interesting, and it's one to which other people will be interested in the answer. Those are the only rules. Okay? Repetition and dullness. Dullness is easy. If you've got a question, a who, why, a what, a where, a when, a wherefore, a whither, whatever it may be, ring it in. If we haven't done it before and we don't think it's boring, we'll stick it on the board and then other people will get the answer. Okay, that's it. I don't know why I over explain this every week. The reason is partly because now that we're podcasting on iTunes and elements of the mystery ago on British Airways flights as well, there'll be a lot of people who don't know what the rules are. But it suddenly occurred to me that if you're listening on a podcast or on a British Airways flight, you're not going to be ringing in, are you? So I don't really need to explain the rules to you. I could just sit back, tell you that it's brilliant, and then prove it to you in the course of the next 54 minutes. Anyway. I still need people to ring in, though, otherwise we wouldn't have a podcast to put out for people who can't ring in. So if you want to ring in and subsequently be heard by people who can't ring in because they're listening at a later date on a podcast, then the number you need is zero 345-606-0973 wow. Don't email or text or tweet unless it's entirely for my own amusement, because you won't really be included in the program proper. The question that you need to ask yourself if you haven't heard this before and you're thinking of joining in, is this is my question. Interesting. And will it definitely have an answer? If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, you have to ring me in, otherwise your radio will melt. Zero 345-606-0973 the only obvious thing to do is point out that you're not allowed to look stuff up. If we were going to Google every question that pops up or look it up in the Encyclopedia Britannica, then the whole point of mystery out would be very, very hard to discern. So you're banned from seeking works of reference. You are, however, able to refer to works of reference that you've previously read or consulted. So if the reason why you know the answer to a question is because you saw it on telly, or because you read it in a book, or because you got taught it at school, those are all valid qualifications. Sometimes newcomers, when I say after they've provided their answer, what are your qualifications? Get a bit confused and they say, well, I've got an O level, or I've got bag of gymnastics award four, or I passed my cycle proficiency in 1982. All I mean is, when I say, what are your qualifications? How do you know what you just told us? Where did you discover that nugget of information that you've just kindly shared with us? That is fairly straightforward, isn't it? The number you need, and I'll only say the number when I've got phone lines for you, is zero 345-606-0973 if you hear me say the number, it means you've at least got a brief chance of getting through to the studio. And if you do get through to the studio and Caroline and Megan seem to be unimpressed by your question, please do us all a favour and politely move along. Don't start trying to argue about whether your question is actually more interesting than it initially appears. We've been doing this for quite a long time, and although we're far from infallible, we do have an appalling volume of calls to get through. And the quicker we can sort the wheat from the chaff, the more likely we are all to get good questions on the board, searching for answers and room for new questions. I think that's pretty much it. I've done what I do every week. I've determined on about Tuesday of this week to remember a question that popped into my mind as I was going about my daily bell. I must remember that. I'll stick that on mystery. And I've forgotten it again. I think the only question I've ever remembered in all the years we've been doing this is why on a Saturday morning, when every single morning of the week, you've woken up at your usual time and thought, oh, man, I wish I didn't have to get out of bed. Why on Saturday morning, when you wake up at the usual time, don't have to get out of bed? Can you not muster up that feeling of not wanting to get out of bed? And instead you just lie there feeling all restless. And your freedom to have a line has been completely undermined by your lack of desire to do so? That's all I've ever remembered. It gives you an idea of how silly your question can be. It can also be very serious. Rob's in triokey. Did I pronounce that right, Rob? Yeah, you are. Thanks. Carry on. Question or answer? It's a question. Yes. I hope you're not going to shoot me down, in fairness. What are you talking about? I never do that, mate. I'll push you off the seesaw, that's all. That's as bad as it gets today. Yeah. Um. I speak all over my mind a couple of weeks. Um, and it's. Don't get me mixed up with exercises question now I want to know is whenever I'm in the swimming pool, I mean, I have asked around as well. I've got quite a positive response when I'm in the swimming pool for any length of time. Irrelevant if it's, like, swam or exercise or just study with the kids watching them. I always, always get absolutely famished. Starving belong beyond believing in the building. You're not even in the water. You get hungry where you get famished when you're watching the kids have a paddle. No, it's literally I'm in the water. It's gotta be. Oh, okay. So you've got to be in the water. I think I know the answer to this. Yeah, but I know. I think I know what you're gonna say as well. You're on about the body temperature dropping and then your sort of metabolism tried to keep warm and that's what's making you hungry? Oh, no, I wasn't gonna say that. That sounds better than what I was gonna say. This is gonna be quite an interesting me. You might have just provided the best available answer to your own question, but I really don't think that is the answer. Because it's a heated swimming pool, you shouldn't be losing too much heat. And really, if you just stood outside your house naked because you get arrested. But if you stood on the side of the swimming pool or without closing, you'd be losing more heat, probably. So. I don't know. I really. I can't work it out. I like it when you say. When you say that you've asked around and you've had quite a positive response, do you mean that other people have gone, yeah, that's really interesting. Or they've gone, yeah, I get hungry too. I actually put it on Facebook as a question on my friends and practically everyone came back and said, apart from some silly answers. But they said, yeah, yeah. It is always the same. You never know why. I give you my theory. It's not going to be the answer. I think you're thirsty rather than hungry. And your body, your brain messages are confused and you're thirsty because of osmosis. Oh, yeah, I do like that. You can mistake and therefore you really can. Quite often when you think you're hungry, if you have a glass of water, then you feel absolute. But I don't know, I mean, if I get it right, we used to. I've got a new colleague now, Rob, and you probably haven't listened to for that long because you're in South Wales. We used to have a hosanna chorus that went off because osmosis is the patron word of mystery hour. And whenever we say the word osmosis, we're supposed to have a hosanna. But Mark's only been here ten minutes. He hasn't got the hang of it yet. I owe you an apology. You deserve the hosanna, then, for introducing the possibility of osmosis to mystery out. We will get you an answer. Why does Rob get hungry in the swimming pool? And not just rob, obviously, but others as well. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Can we see if we can find the osmosis hosanna? We see if we got it. Tony's in air. Tony, question or answer from South Wales. Morning, James. Tony, what have we got? Why do you always refer to your mother in law as your mother in law. What's the law got to do with it? You don't mean me personally? Yeah, I heard you a couple of weeks ago saying if you won the pools, you would buy your mother in law something. Did I say that on the radio? Yeah, you did, actually. If you won the lottery or something, what would you buy him? Your mother in law. Right. Well, can I. Hang on. I want to officially retract that observation that I don't remember making. Much as I love her, I don't want any expectations or guarantees in the event of me clearing a scratch card. But it's not just me. It's not just me, Tony. In Italy, we have words for a mother in law, which is different. It's nothing to do with the law. And same with a brother in law and a sister in law. What's the law got to do with it? Why is she not just your wife's mother in law? Is it because in the olden days, I would have been financially responsible for her? I'm asking. I mean, it seems very strange in this modern law in law, I think. No, I like no blood relations, you know, in law. Why is. Why. Why are in laws in laws? Because it's not as mothers in law. You say father in law as well. Although that might have been a brother in law. Sister in law. In what law? In what law are they in? My. I know, I just clarifying. I'm not the only person who uses the phrase mother in law. Lots of other people use. Everyone uses it here. Everyone uses it. I know. You're on. All right. You're on. Yeah, I bet. I bet law means something different from what we're thinking, Tony. Well, I don't know, but I hear all the time, every day, people talk about their mother in law, the system. Les Dawson had a whole app built around. Let's find out why. Why in law? I like God. We've been spanning the nations, spanning the nations on mystery out today from South Wales to Scotland. Where are we going next? Oh, Tom's in Leighton. Hello, Tom. Hello, James. Question or answer? It's. Question. Go on. Basically, what it is is that, like, when I was younger, I'd always be going down to the sort of seafront, like with dad and granddad and stuff like that. And it always go down. Have a deep breath of the Sierra and go, I so good for me. And I was always wondering, what? Why is Sierra good for you? Well, how do you know it? Is that as well? But I thought he's only allowed one question. Well, I know, but you should have asked that one first. You should have asked, is Sierra good for you? Not why is she? That's question two. You can't say why. Is something happening? So is it? Let's. Let's is good for you. Because if we are, if someone explains to us that it is good for us, they'll have to explain why. So. So rewind on your question and ask me, is sierra good for you? Yeah, that sounds good. Judge, you're on. Okay. I like that I've got the word ozone in my head, but that might just be a hangover from osmosis that was hanging around there a minute ago. I've also had the funniest response. I'm sorry. To return to the topic that we were having in the last hour of. I should check that the providence of this Twitter account, shouldn't I, before I point it out to you, but I don't know how official it is or indeed unofficial, but a Twitter account called you kip online at you. Kip online has responded to that poster of the indian looking lady in the sari with the skinhead at the other end, and they've said, this is Cheshire life is their name, and Ukip online is their Twitter account. It's not about the color of the skin. It's about fitting in. Sharia law. Open your eyes. I think she's a Hindu. Charmaine is in hollow. Charmaine. Question or answer? Hi. I want to know why, when you use a vending machine, if it doesn't take the coin, but when you scratch the metal, it then works? I used to lick it. Ew. Why would you do that? Same reason it changes the weight slightly or the thickness of the. I don't know. I don't know. Does scratching work? I didn't lick the actual coin. I would lick my thumb and then rub it on the coin. But why are you sure scratching works? Are you talking about parking machines? 100% it works. But what do you scratch it with? You just scratch it along the side of whatever machine it is, and then it goes in. I like the question, but I don't. Well, I have to take your word for it. So you scratch the coin, and it didn't work the first time, and it works the second time? Not always. It's not foolproof, it's not 100% the second time, but if you keep doing it, it will eventually go in. Here's the thing. I like this question. It's suddenly gone philosophical. I wasn't expecting that. And I bet you weren't either, Charmaine. No. How do you know that? The same thing wouldn't have happened if you hadn't scratched it? Because initially you put the coin in as you think the machine is going to take it. So then you scratch it. But not. Not every time. You just said no. No. So it could just be. Yeah, but listen, I've got a coin. I'm going to put it in the machine five times. It's not going to get accepted five times. It's going to get accepted three times whether I scratch it or not. But scratching works. You don't know that scratching works. All you know is that a coin that has been rejected once can be accepted subsequently. You don't know that you've actually done anything to that coin to enhance the likelihood of acceptance. You just think you have. You're deriving an ought from an is. You're falling into a classical philosophical conundrum, first outlined by Plato, I believe, in his famous symposium. I bet you didn't know that when you rang in about parking meters, did you? We'll find out. I don't know. It just occurred to me that I've done it as well. All these years I've been licking my thumb and putting it on a coin before sticking it back in the fruity. How do I know that that is why it got accepted this time? Maybe it would have got accepted this time if I hadn't licked it. You've got no way of knowing because you can't exist in an alternative universe where you simultaneously put a licked coin and an unlicked coin, or, in Charmaine's rather more savory case, a scratched coin or an unscratched coin into an identical vending machine. God. It's all happening today. 1216 is the time. This is LBC. LBC, 20 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions that need answers. Why do we get hungry in the swimming pool? If indeed we all do, why did we talk about in law, mother in law, brother in law, what does that mean? I just want to know in law, what does it mean? Is ca really good for you? And why does scratching a coin apparently make a vending machine more likely to accept it? Jim's in Romford. We need some answers. We need some. I've got a board full of questions. No, we're all right. It's fine. Jim's in Romford. Jim. Question or answer? Hello, James. Sorry about it. I've got another question for you. That's right. Jim, that's what we're here for. Right? Okay. Right. A couple of years ago. So a couple of years ago, about ten years ago, I flew from Stansted to Texas. Right. And you get the tv screens in front of you show you where you're flying. What? The line of where you're flying. Yeah. And I noticed I was flying up to New York and then back down to Texas. I want to know why you do a horseshoe shape rather than flying a straight line. Surely it'll be quicker to fly in a straight line and then go on a horseshoe. You've been wrestling with this mystery for ten years, Jim. No, I phoned you up about this a few years ago and I missed the callback. So I can get to ask you the question. So, yeah, when you see on the screen on. When you see on the screen on the chair in front of you, the. The plot is. Plot plots the journey of the plane. You're asking why the plane didn't fly as the crow flies. And it took a strange. Well, exactly. I mean, what's. How do you know? They all do that and be. Well, my one did. I mean, my one went from. Yeah, but if the question. Jim, you know what the rule is, mate. The answer has to be interesting to everybody. If it turns out that this was only really relevant to your single flight ten years ago, it's going to fall at the first mystery hour hurdle. I say I think it's relevant to everyone else, because if everyone else is going to fly from Stansted to Houston, Texas, they don't want. Really want to spend an extra 4 hours doing a horseshoe shape. Did it arrive on time? I can't remember. Well, it's kind of important, Jimbo. Did it arrive on time or didn't it? Because if it arrived 4 hours late, it did arrive on time. Yeah, pretty sure. All right. I'm a bit worried about this one. I think the word that. The word I've got in front of me is flaky. No, it's not. It is. It's a flaky question. Yeah, of course I'm going to put it on, Jim, because it's you, mate. I can't. I can't afford. I can't afford to run the risk of getting out. Lord. In Romford, 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Why. Why did Jim's flight take such a long time to get to Texas or something? Genevieve's in Warwickshire. Rugby, to be precise. Genevieve, question or answer? I've got another question. Come on, then. Okay. I just want to know why in London, do we have boroughs? And outside of London, in other counties, we have towns. Well, because there's no gap in between the boroughs. What do you mean by that? Well, you can tell where a town starts and finishes because it's got a border. Yeah. The London borough. You can literally cross a road to move from the London Borough of Kensington into the London borough of Brent or Westminster or wherever it may be. Yeah, but you could kind of do that with the town as well. How would you do that with the town? Well, I mean, like, for example, I work with the police, so we have, like, borders around, like, every town. And depending on what grid reference it is, depends on, you know, who would be dealing with something in that area. So, you know, it's still. It's not exactly an exact science. And the reason why I asked is because. Why is it? Well, I was watching a lot of Crystal palace supporters traveling in London and why is it, like, all the London football teams are named after areas and everywhere else it seems that they're named after, like, one, like, Man United, Leicester, where there's no. Hang on, you've lost me a bit there. I think I actually dozed off. I'm so sorry, Genevieve. That's so unprofessional of me. Well, basically what I'm saying is that in London, there's not like a London football team, there's like, Chelsea, Crystal palace, but in other areas there's, there's like, man United, there's less. Have you got a question for me? Or are you just sort of launching a stream of consciousness bid for your own radio show in London? Are there boroughs? And not like towns, because you're dividing, you're dividing. Think of a map and you're dividing it into manageable population groupings when you're applying council amenities. So London is so enormous that you have to sort of cut it up with lines, if you see what I mean, and break it up into boroughs so that each local government borough takes responsibility for that area. Most towns aren't big enough to demand that. Some are. You know, you've got the equivalent of boroughs in places like Birmingham, Manchester, but they're cities. Generally speaking, towns are self contained with a town council. So it's all the answer. Your question ultimately is councils. But I've got a horrible feeling that you're not going to accept that. Well, but then where do I live now? Where I live now, we still have a local council, but we still have a county council. Yeah. So. And we've got, we've got London. We've got the Greater London council, as it was. We've got the London assembly, but we've also got local boroughs. We've got a mayor of London, who is. But we've also got a mayor of Hammersmith. Yes. So why. Why are they borrowers and not towns? Well, you could call it a town. You can call Chiswick a town if you want to. I don't really think you understand the question I was about to say. I don't, but I think I've got to the heart of this and you don't understand the question. I understand what I'm asking because obviously I've lived when I lived in London. We see everything as boroughs. We don't see them as towns. The borough is a term of local government. People do talk about towns. You can talk about the town of Crouch end if you want, or the town of Chiswick. We just don't because they're so close to the next town. It would just seem silly. No one knows where the border would be but for local government. Mark, just give me a round of applause, will you? Thank you very much. Mike's in chat. And, Mike, question or answer? Hi. Good afternoon to you. It's a bit of an answer, really, to your lady. You rung up regarding the scratching of coins on vending machines. Bring it on. It's a total fallacy. Yeah, that scratching coins works at all, or licking coins, but we've just brought out, because of the damage we got to our vending machines out in the field, some coin scratch plate. Oh, man, this is beautiful. This is a magical moment for mystery. Out. Come on, carry on. I think I know where we're going. I hope we are, after bigging you up like that, Mike. Go on. We're going to dig me up. Yeah. No, obviously we've got a lot of damage, particularly in schools. The kids scratch the machines right back to the bare metal. So the damage it does is, you know, it's quite comprehensive and you've got to bring them back, respray them. They look ugly. So we've designed and developed two sizes of high grade stainless steel, British manufactured as coined scratch plates. Coined rub plates. This is a thing of absolute beauty. So because of the apocryphal belief that scratching a coin increases the likelihood of a vending machine accepting it, whenever your coin doesn't get accepted, first time you scratch it, put it back in and you've got an equal chance of it being accepted as you would have done if you hadn't scratched it. This is. I touched on this, didn't I? With the questioner? I had a suspicion. This was interesting. I had no idea it was this interesting. But because a lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has got its trousers on, you're having to legislate for all the people who believe the untrue fact. Yeah, I mean, it's. I mean, it's. In this country is a big, massive problem. Love it. In America, South Africa, they have the same sort of issues, whether it's on parking ticket machines. Love it, love it, love it. So everyone thinks they can scratch it, but in fact, it's like I said, if you put the same coin through the machine ten times, the chances are you wouldn't get rejected or accepted. Ten times. No qualifications, Mike. Like I don't know already. Just a bit of experience in the vending industry. No, I need more than that. Come on, come on. No, just literally, you know, just a vending. Vending engineer. That's just the most amazing qualification possible for this. Stop being so modest. Vending company engineer. There you go. Beautiful. Says it all. Thank you very much. Have we found the hosanna yet? Have a hosanna as well while you're here, because that was beautiful. Oh, brilliant. Carry on. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to Jose O'Brien on LB. Oh, what's this going on here? No rubbish. Keith. Keith, do you realize now why you're talking rubbish? No, but he works in the industry, mate. I worked in the telephone payphone industry for about two years. Yeah, go on, then. Give us your answer. That's wrong. Well, I think it does work sometimes, especially with silver coins. Why? Why? Because they collect it. Because they collect a lot of grease and dirt on the surface of the coin. You know, absolute cobblestone. It's coming up to 12:30. You listen to James O'Brien on LBC, but Bharti has the headlines. London's mayor, Sadiq Khan has told LBC an independent. LBC 1233 is the time we need some answers. Why do we get hungry in a swimming pool? Or why do we think we get hungry in the swimming pool? What does in law mean in the context of a mother in law? Is sea air really good for you? And why does a flight to the states apparently take an unnecessary horseshoe route? This is specifically from stansted to Texas, sort of ending up going via New York. I think I understood that correctly. Although Jim in Romford, as we discussed at the time, it may just have been his personal experience, but either way, I need your answers to all of those and more. And then we need some more questions. Nick's in Hayward's heath. Nick, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, Nick. It's about the flight to Texas. Oh, splendid. So it's not just in Jim's head? No, it's not just in Jim's head. It's because of the. Because the planet isn't flat. Whoa. You can't just come on the radio and drop bombshells like that, mate. Weren't you listening to the last hour? But, yeah. If the world was flat, you'd fly in a direct, straight line. It would take you less time, but because you're flying around a ball shaped planet, you go in a horseshoe shape. It's less distant. What are your qualifications? I fly to America about five times a year. But my dad used to work for British Airways. He worked for British Airways for 28 years. Because you have the patina of plausibility to your answer. But I. You don't have the physics to hand, do you know? Which doesn't matter because it makes sense if it was flat, because you're flying in a kind of. Yeah, and the earth is also turning while you're flying. I don't know if that's relevant as well, but probably. It might have some relevance, but I think it's. Yeah, just because you're traveling around a ball shaped planet, you're on. Round of applause for Nick, mate. Yep. Next week, don't just tune in for mystery. Aye. All right, carry on. 1235 is the time. Peter is in Clapham. Peter, question or answer? Question. Yes. Right. Why is it that when you. When you get a tattoo, why doesn't it just grow out? Because you're always told that your skin sheds daily or, you know, weekly or whatever. Yeah. And you have a certain amount of layers of skin. Yeah. If that's the case, after 20 years, why can you still see a tattoo? And. Same for a scar, less so for a scar, but. I don't know. But with a tattoo, the answer, you unwittingly just provided it yourself. The ink goes below all the layers of skin. Okay, so what does the. What's below layers of skin? Hang on, mate. It's not a biology lesson. You just asked me about tattoos. I've given you the answer. Okay, well. But what I'm trying to say is that I've just answered the question. Okay, fair enough. Oh, by the way, the last question as well, it's because the circumference of the earth is fatter than. As well. That's what makes the distance shorter, going across. I don't. I don't want to send you away unsatisfied, Peter. I stopped doing that in my twenties. What, um. Okay, what was. What was the supplementary question you're about? That's far too much information. The question is very clear, I think. Why doesn't it just grow out? I mean, if what's underneath your skin and gets tattooed. No, I promise you the answer to the question you asked is right. The ink is below all of the skin that is subject to the sort of shed ingot processes that you describe. But if you want to know what's underneath all the layers of skin, then you'll have to ring in next week. Okay? Fair comment. Okay, I'll take that. Round of applause for me. Thank you, Peter. Just for the record, that was a lie. I never sent anyone away unsatisfied in my twenties, all my teens. Charlie's in Sheffield. Charlie, what would you like to say? Question or answer? I got a question, James. Yes. So why do we have two nostrils? Because two eyes gives us depth perception. Two ears lets us locate sounds, but two nostrils doesn't seem to really give us anything. Yeah, it does. What does it give us? Gives you. It gives you. Doubles your chances of being able to breathe when you've got one block nostril. Well, it'll be harder to block one big nostril than two small ones. Not necessarily. How so? What? I know. I'm not convinced by that. I think there must be more to it. Like, you only have. You only have one mouse, don't you? That's easy to block. Yes. Well, yeah. I'd like to see you try, sir. Well, are you saying people haven't died from joking? Of course I'm not. I'd like to see you try to stop me talking. It's 1230. It's 1238. Why? Why do you want to know? Where is this question come from? I like this question, but where does it come from? I just looked in the mirror and sort of penny drops. It was last week. I wanted to call up the mystery hour then, but I didn't get through. So the evolutionary explanation often turns out to be behind these sort of anatomical questions. What is the evolutionary advantage of having two nostrils? Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Because all mammals seem to have it cast. Yeah, they do. And there doesn't seem to be an obvious answer. I bet. I bet. I wonder if I might. I might actually be right with that now I come to think about it. But we shall find out. We shall find out. Do you know what the little ditch in between your nostrils going down to your lip is called. I do not. It's a great word, mate. What is it? Philtrum. Philtrum. What? Philtrum. F I l t r u m. What does it do? Well, it sort of channels the snot into your mouth. I mean, you asked, what can I. Well, I didn't. I didn't ask about that. You did. It's like a drainage ditch from Youcas. Nonetheless, I'm actually looking in the mirror now to see it. Have you got a philtrum? Have you got a nice philtrum? I don't. I think so. I'll send you a picture. You can. You can have a look yourself. All right, you're freaking me out now. It's 1240. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues with Terry in Gravesend. Terry, what have you got? Question or answer? Uh, answer, please. Carry on, Terry. The one with the in laws. Yes. It comes from church law. It's ecclesiastical law. That's the law you're. You're married under. So it comes under church law. Why? Well, what does it mean, though? What does it mean? Well, it's the law of the church. It's the church. What they call the church law. The canon law, I think, is the phrase you're looking for. Is it canon law that you're looking for ecclesiastical? I just forgot. Married nearly 50 years ago by Avika, and he said it comes from the church law, but I don't know if that answers the question. Well, that's why they're in laws, because it's the law. The law part is the law of the church, not the law of the land. Yes. So it doesn't mean anything, then? It does because you get married in the church. Well, this is the days we never got married in the church anyway. Yeah, but what does it mean? Okay, so it does. It's not the law of the land. It's the. It's the law of the church. But what does it. What does it actually mean? You mean you buy by the church law when you get married? When you take your veils? No, you're not making sense, Terry. Well, it should be. Well, I know you should be. My brother in law might be a, you know, a zoroastrian. There's no relationship between him and my charge. No, but you're the families I joined together by the fact you've married your wife. You and your wife are now married. I'm sure you're right about it being church law rather than legal law. So to speak. But I don't think that you're answering the question that the questioner asked, which is more along the lines of what does it actually mean? What does it represent? What is the difference between my wife's mother and my mother in law? What rights does that title impart to her? What does it mean? Means you join their family. The two families have joined together, even their relations, like brother in law, sister in law and that sort of thing. I just feel a little unsatisfied. Okay. I don't. I don't want to upset you. Well, yes, I know I don't want to, but I just feel. I don't know, I feel unfulfilled by your answer. It may turn out to be the best answer we get, but I just feel a little bit, I don't know, unsated. Can I give you a tiny snatch of applause? You make up a one and a half at last time. Did you have one and a half last time? But if I give you a half, it brings you up to the double. But you. But this is. This is more out. I'm gonna. I'm not gonna lie to you, Terry. This is. This is more charity than anything else. I appreciate that. Thank you, James. Thank you, Terry. Alan's in Ashford. Question or answer, Alan. Here's the question, James. Yes. What were the Queen's 90th birthday and all the celebrations been on recently? Yeah. And all these people give her flowers. Yeah. Almost all the flowers. Yeah. It's not like, does she take them over, put me in the lounge? All the immigrants eat them. All the immigrants eat them in a giant immigrant salad. I think you're taking the mickey now. I was thinking maybe she sits in her lounge on an evening. Off with his head. Her Majesty does not have a lounge. She has a snug. Snug. Then he said, oh, there's a nice bunch from James. Oh, look at that bunch you got from Ireland. I came from the cluggle. So you mean the flowers. You mean the flowers that ordinary people, eg plebs, have sent her? Not. Not the sort of ceremonial flea. Give her the giver when she's, you know, doing a walkabout. She's. Yeah. She's constantly being handed bunches of flowers. She isn't. She's giving more flowers. And I bet they go to hospitals. She's all right, the old queen. Yeah, she's all right like that. I bet she doesn't just sort of pile them up in a big pile of flowers or for those people that don't suffer from aphids in it. Suffer from aphids? Well, yeah. I've often wondered about flowers in hospitals. Health and safety. Probably. Go on to it, I'll find out for you. But just to specify, you don't mean all the flowers that are ceremonially and officially provided to her Majesty? You mean the ones that you and I send her? Yeah, exactly. The ones that peps give her on the street when she does a walkabout. What happens to all the flowers given? I like that question. I really do like that question. 1243 is the time. Alan. Good work. Queens, flowers, nostrils. You may be able to do the tattoo question, but I think I've already done it. Is Sierra good for you? And why do we get hungry in the swimming pool? Jill is in Beckenham. Jill, question and answer. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the one about why we have two nostrils. Well played, Jill. It's because they're linked to the ears and we have two ears. The eustachian tube joins the nostril to the ear and air goes down the eustachian tube to equalize the pressure in the middle ear. So if you only had one nostril, only one ear could equalize. Oh, man alive. That's an answer of uncommon beauty. Jill, my qualifications. I'm a scuba diver, a very old scuba diver. And when you're going down in the water, the water pressure increases the pressure on the eardrum, so you have to put air through the eustachian tube into your middle ear to stop you damaging your eardrum. Blimey. That's one of the best answers we've ever had. Round of applause for. I don't like your description of yourself as a very old scuba diver, Joel. I am very old. I think the scuba diving is more relevant than the vintage. Do you still dive? Yes, I'm going next month to Mexico to dive. Whereabouts? Cozumel. Are you going in the cenotes? No, no, we're just on the island of Cozumel, which is. So you're doing sort of in the sea, because, you know, the sinkholes in Mexico are fascinating. Have you ever dived in a sinkhole? I've dived in the blue hole in the West Indies, which is a sinkhole. That was fun. I've always found. Do you want to know that? You mentioned your age. Yeah, I'm a bit late for the travel, but they can wait. Jill, this is important. When I was a kid, I loved tunnels and exploring sort of underground and underwater and all that sort of thing. As a grown up. It frightens me. It's terrifying. A lot of people die doing cave diving when they're not properly qualified and trained. Ah, well, maybe that's why it terrifies me. But I remember I was chief tunneler at prep school. Adrian Higgins used to hold onto my ankles, and if there was a. If the roof fell in, he'd dragged me out by my ankles while I was burrowing away at the other end of the tunnel, trying to link one den to another in the woods. It's gone off a bit, this call, hasn't it? Joe, can I make a little recommendation to you? Yes. It's nothing to do with scuba diving, but there's a short story by Doris Lessing called the tunnel, which is. I just think you'll enjoy it. I just got a feeling. Read it on the plane. I will. Carry on. And bon voyage is 1246 from the LBC travel center. Good afternoon. It's ten to one, you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. Questions that still need answers. Is sea good for you? And where do all the queen's flowers go? And why do we get hungry in the pool? I wonder. I do. I do genuinely wonder whether the answer actually might prove to be. Will the answer actually prove to be osmosis? Oh, it's working. Fantastic. I don't know, but no one else has provided it yet. Professor Hal is here, the patron saint of mystery, and, of course, less importantly, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton Hall. James, you were on radio four earlier this week. I'm sorry, what the hell was that about? I'm so. It was actually about the thing which irritated me on your show earlier in the day, the obesity forum saying fats are good and carbs are bad. Yes, and the question was a more broader one about why does science keep changing its mind? Why is red wine good for you one year, but not good for you the next? Good question. And it's all about science being reporting on the evidence itself available at the time, and reports being made in isolation of others. And we talked about the MMR vaccine. I know, I was listening, mate. Really? You were? Yeah, I tuned in especially. Wayne told me you were on. Oh, that's so sweet. Yeah, you were really good. But I just would remind you. I made you, man. I made you. You did make me. Yeah. Just quite figure out. I owe you, question or answer? And I'd like to tell you about Sierra, if I may. Of course you may. Is it good for you? It's not so much that it's particularly good for you, it's less bad for you. Urban air or inland air tends to have pollutants caused by traffic and industry of nitrous oxide and nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide. That very yellow sheen that you see in pictures of Beijing is all to do with that. Plus, of course, the particulates. So sea air, it feels good for you because it's. First of all, it's very cool. It's cooler than prevailing air because sea has a huge high thermal inertia. Water takes its time to change temperatures. It's cool and bracing. .1.2. It, of course, dilutes all the pollutants and mixes them all up and washes them away because you've got onshore winds and also you tend not to have industry or lots of traffic on the sea. And just to your point about ozone, ozone is actually terribly bad for you. It's very good when it's in the ozone layer because it absorbs uv, but actually it's a carcinogen because it breaks down into oxygen radicals. Yeah. No, ozone is really bad for you. It's toxic. Sooner we destroy that layer, the better then. Well, no, I'm yanking your chain, mate. Yeah. So, to summarize, yeah, this reminds me, the question we had about, do you remember someone asked about why the seaside smells british and british seasides, but not british in overseas seaside? It's all to do with the vegetation, and the iodine smell, which is slightly apocryphal, is all to do with the particular seaweed that we have around our coasts. So it's not massively better for. Specifically better for you. It's more a conflation of a congruence of circumstances that improve the quality near the seaside. I love that answer. It's the absence of bad rather than the presence of particular good. Got you like it? Lot. Great answer. Okay, when are you next on, uh, the BBC? No, it's a one hit wonder. I wouldn't be surprised, mate. I won't be surprised if that old phone starts ringing. Okay, thanks for the. Did you charge them? No, but I don't charge you either. Well, I know, but that's because you ring me, I don't ring you. Okay. 1254. Professor Hal Sozobosky, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and media tart Riley's in Greenwich. Riley, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, Riley. It's to the mother in law question. Oh, yes. I love the idea of someone just tuning in. Think flipping out. They're aiming high. You're going to try and solve the mother in law question before 01:00 today. What does the phrase in law mean in the context of the mother in law question? Okay. It's a way of identifying how you're related to someone in the church. And it comes from the idea that the church is a big family and that everyone is our brothers, sisters, mothers and fathers. If you're related to someone by blood, they're just your brother, sister, mother or father. If you're not a relative, they're your brother, sister, mother or father in Christ. But if you're related by marriage, they're your brother, sister, mother or father in the church law. So the other fellow was right. You just explained it a bit better. That's correct. And Mark got cross from me as well. He says, sorry, I think you're being a bit slow here, James. It means brother in the eyes of the law of the church, that is, via marriage. And therefore perfectly clear. Yeah. What are your qualifications, Riley? I am an avid student of the Bible and I have a love of history. Fair play, nice combination, and it's earned you a round of applause. Are you allowed to accept a round of applause or would it be a sort of. You sure about this? Because I don't want any false idols. No, I'm 100% sure. All right. Give it to Riley. Ross is in Walthamstow. Ross, question or answer, please, mate. Are you all right? Do you need to run? No, no, no. It's a fire engine, unfortunately. Okay, I'm going to come back to you in a minute. Ross. I can barely make out a word that you're saying. He's not going to sell any ice creams going at that speed. Paul's in Wandsworth. Paul, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Carry on. Paul. Yes, in regards to the. What happens to the flowers that are presented to the queen? Basically, depending on where she is, they get distributed towards hospitals, hospices, elderly care homes, etcetera. And normally presented at the entrance of the said establishment. And probably more hospices and care homes than actual hospitals. Because of pollen and various other health and safety, hospitals are now banned from flowers. What? They've banned flowers from hospitals? A lot of hospitals these days won't allow you to bring flowers in. God damn. It's probably useful. It also depends on what type of ward you're. You're visiting as well, your qualifications. A friend of mine's father was a lord lieutenant and I asked him once, years ago, he told me that was the answer. Nice one round of applause for Paul. It's just the first question about getting hungry in the swimming pool. Are we going to be able to squeeze that in? Ross is in Walthamstow. Let's have another go, Ross. Yes. We're a lot better now. Sorry. I was basking in the sun when the fire engine went past on their indoors. Carry on. What have you got? The answer to the tattoo question. Why doesn't it go as your skin disappears or sheds off? Yep. The tattoo goes into epidermis of the skin, which is part of you and will be forever until you got away. So it just doesn't disappear. It kind of fades, obviously, because it just does. But it's in the epidermis because everything fades. Even the paint on your car fades over the years. Does it? Yeah. That's the son and the youth qualifications. Ross wife's a nurse and we both got tattoos. Do you ever spend much time on seesaws? When I was a child, yes. Round of applause. Janet and Guildford. Question or answer, Janet. Hopefully he's a swimming pool. Please be the swimming pool. There's an answer. It is a swimming pool. Why do we get hungry in the swimming pool? Basically, we use the same amount of energy as we're riding a bike or doing cycling. No, mate. No, no, no. He said he even gets hungry when he's just watching the kids splash about. He's standing there in his. In his swimmers. Not. Not. Not barely moving. Not barely moving. Now, you. Surely you are moving a certain amount. But he gets hungry in the pool in a way that he doesn't get hungry. I don't know, then. As far as I know, for swimmers, where we get really hungry is because we're using a much more. No, but he's not swimming. She was. He was adamant right at the outset that he even gets hungry when he's not swimming around. He's just standing there keeping an eye on the kids, making sure they're not drowning. What's that word for. What's that word for when water moves from a semi permeable memory? What's the word? Because. What's the word? What's the word? I know. It's osmosis. I think you just got it right. No, but it's not osmosis. I know that. No, you pressed the wrong button. Aren't you? Pray. It feels good, though, right? No, but at the end it isn't that. It is, because at the end of the day, that would know, then that would parallel it. And if that was the case, then the balance of water outside and that inside of the body would actually be balanced. We would eventually. If you stayed in the water forever, you'd sort of die of bloating. Yeah, it's just mystery hour over for another week. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. I've had a blast today. Thank you. Oh, and thank you to Beverly Knight for one of the best gigs I've ever been to. Last night at the London Palladium. I'd say Beverly Knight has now blown the roof off something I've attended with my mum and my ten year old daughter. Three generations of the same family. But anyway, I'm taking up Sheila Fogarty's time. I do apologize. It's not, though. I'm pretty relaxed. Us. Thanks very much indeed. From three. I want to talk about the move from north to south that the government's own figures say is happening. Large numbers of people moving north to south for work, for example, putting London under pressure and leaving northern cities and towns with an aging population getting smaller all the time. Why can't we balance our population in the UK? Also, MP's are concerned about a new system of reporting missing children. We'll talk about that from two.