Why are some chocolates wrapped in foil?

Three minutes after twelve is the time. And here we are. I've done the introduction already, so if you're one of those dirty stop outs who only tunes in at twelve for mystery hour, I guess you're gonna. It's a win win for you today because you don't have to enjoy the introduction again, if you're new to this, trust me, it's great. It's really funny. Ideally, although I'm still a bit. I can't lie to you, I'm still a little bit discombobulated by meeting Martin Hetzer, Mum and Dad. It's. You know, we interview hundreds of people in this job. Every now and then you come across people who just make you really sort of stop. Unfortunately, when you've got an hour and 15 minutes of a radio show still to present, you don't have the luxury of being able to stop. So, onwards and upwards. What's your question? Can you answer anybody else's? And will you receive your guaranteed laugh out loud moment between now and 01:00? It comes with two guarantees. This hour of radio laugh out loud moment. And of course, and that might be tricky today. I'm feeling a little bit subdued, a little bit sombre. But the one that you will definitely be fulfilled, the guarantee you will receive is the fact that you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. May not be information that you're particularly grateful for. It may not be information that you can remember by 01:15 it may not be information that serves you any purpose whatsoever in the rest of your life. But you will, at 01:00 today, know more than you do at 12:05 I promise. And if you don't, full refunds available. Just get in touch with Axel. Roland is in bow. Roland, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Roland. I'm finally on. Finally on. I feel like the people from the Truman show when they're trying to break into the program you're in. Although I am real, so it's a really simple one, actually, we're sitting with some friends in my garden the other day, and we wanted to know why plant hire is called plant hire. I don't mean green plants, I mean plant machinery. Why is it called plant machinery? I've got bad news for. Well, I've got good news and bad news. What do you want first? The good news. Good news is I know the answer to this. The bad news is it's profoundly unsatisfying answer, in that nobody really knows for sure, but the competing theories are essentially that it comes from, obviously, the verb to plant. And the idea is that this heavy stuff is. Is planted on the ground before you can use. No, I know, I know. I told you. I told you, didn't I? Told you that I knew the answer and that it was profoundly unsatisfying. So what exactly is not coming true? What's numbing? But this is the received wisdom on the subject. And the other theory, it is knowing that it's the only available answer. That was it. I'm not accepting it. But there's nothing you can do. But there is nothing else that. Isn't that the whole point of mystery out? Yes, but this is the. This is known. We've done it before. Research has been conducted. The best available explanations, it goes back to about the 18th century. The first time it was used, is that the machinery is planted on the ground in a way that people suggested was similar to a plant. The other theory is that it's an abbreviation of plantation, as in working on the plant. A. But that's even less persuasive, isn't it? It really is. All right, well, listen, pal. Listen, Palomin. I will put this. I will leave it on the board, but I'm telling you now, you're not going to get a better answer than one I just gave you. I expect a round of applause. You're not getting around anything. Answerable question. It's an unanswerable question. Don't know. Nobody knows. Don't need to know. It's not on the curriculum. I shall see if anybody's got a better answer. You never know. Stranger things have happened. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number to call when you hire a crane or a cement mixer. Why is it called plant hire? Hit the numbers now. You will not get through. Actually, I'll give you the numbers when you will. Danny's in York. Danny, question or answer? It's a question. Yes, carry on, Danny. One of my friends is pregnant, and she's going past her due date now, and she's getting to the point where she wants. She's getting to the point where she's like, I want the baby out now. So we've been discussing ways to sort of induce labor, and one that keeps cropping up is having a very hot, spicy curry. Yes. Is it true? And if it is true, how does it work? Oh, I thought I was going to get a round of applause. Then why do you know? Because it will know. I know that it's true, but I can't remember what I can't remember why. Okay, I'd like to know why. Actually, I better scratch that as well. Because if I can't remember why, I can't really remember whether it's true or not, can I? But I know that we did it. And I think with our eldest, she's eleven now. It's a long time ago. I think it worked. Misses O'Brien doesn't really eat spicy curry. She eats mild curries. But she had a spoonful of my spicy curry and I think we were at the hospital within 12 hours. Wow. Yeah, but it might happen anyway, Danny. It's not. It's not. It's not. Correlation is. It's just. It's not causation, it's correlation. No. Is there any research that's been done? And why is it happening? You want science, mate, don't you? You want actual science on this one. Let's get Danny some science on the relationship between a vindaloo and a new arrival. So she's. Because she's gone past the due date already, has she? Yeah, she's about a week past now. So she's getting a bit. Well, she might. She mean she may as well have a curry. It can't do any harm, can it? Exactly. Yeah. I get down there now, get a file for the go, for the biggie. We'll find out. Is there a relationship? But we need science, not old wives tales. Between spicy food and late pregnancies. Tom is in Henley. Tom, question or answer? Hello. Hi. Hello, Tom. You're all right, mate. You say you sound a bit discombobulated, Tom. Well, I listen every single week, but this is the first time I thought I'd call in. Good man. Yeah, right. Boxes of chocolates. Sometimes you get. One of the chocolates would be wrapped in foil. Yes. And sometimes it's a strawberry one or an orange one. But the other day I had a box of chocolates and one was strawberry and it was wrapped in foil, but then the orange one wasn't and I thought, well, why some of them wrapped and some of them aren't? What is your. If I gave you two boxes of chocolates, took the lid off both of them, one of them had a couple of foil wrapped ones in and one of them didn't, what would your instinctive gut reaction be about which one was more expensive? The one with the foil. I think that's all it is, really. I think it just makes them look smarter. Because you're wondering whether there. Is it there to stop the aroma of strawberry somehow invading the rest of the chocolates or something like that. It's unlikely, isn't it? Then you've got coffee ones that aren't wrapped. Exactly. So it's just amazing. It's aesthetic rather than. Oh, come on, give me a word. Like to do with food. Functional. It's aesthetic rather than functionality, you know, I mean, I wouldn't take that, frankly. I bet you 50 quid I'm right, but I can't prove it. So you're not going to take it as an answer, are you? Actually, 50 quid's a bit steep. I bet you're a box of roses. All right, let's do that. A ten equality street. We call it quid. Why do some chocolates have foil on them? I need to hear from a chocolatier. Philip is in gold as green. Philip. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Okay. Avocados go brown. You cut them and leave them in the air, right? Yeah. And if you take out the pit of the avocado and then put it in a cup of water, the avocado stays green. Shut up. I'm telling you, I've seen it. Shut the front doors. You take the stone out of an avocado, the avocado is on the other side of the kitchen. You put the stone in a glass of water and the avocado doesn't go brown. Yes, I've seen it. Do me flavor. 2 hours. No chance. Not possible. Well, I mean, is this something you've known about in the past? So you decided to do an experiment? Or is it just a complete anomaly in your own kitchen that you think is emblematic of a wider scientific truth? I've heard of it. I've heard of acne before, that's why. Really? You. Oh, I can always do this. The more condescending and rude I get, the more likely I am to look like an idiot later. But it can't. It can't be true. It can't. It simply can't be true. Apparently, it's even true. I've heard. Did you have a controller? Did you have a control when you conducted your experiment? No. So you need another avocado laying out for acaposh meal? Yes. We cut it all beforehand and prepared it nicely and everything. A sprinkling of lemon juice. Yes. Certainly will keep your avocado verdant. But taking out the stone and putting it in a glass of water, I just don't believe you. I don't know how to respond. I don't even know if the question deserves to stay on the board. Philip, I've got to be honest with you. Sure it does. I'm sure it doesn't. I mean, it just can't be. It kind of makes no scientific sense whatsoever. Unless there's some sort of star Trek style transportation going on between the avocado and the stone. The stone is communicating. With what? I'm asking the question. I want the answer. But there isn't an answer because it's not true. Your premises are false. Why are they false? Because there's no way that an avocado stone can communicate with an avocado pair from the other side of the room when in a glass of water, in a way that it wouldn't be able to do if it wasn't in a glass of water. Obviously, that's the question I've got. Well, no, but it's not true. You're saying, why does this happen? And I'm saying it doesn't. I saw it happening. Yeah, but you didn't have a control. You didn't have another avocado stone, not in a glass of water, to test whether or not this time they didn't know what you want from me. I don't know what you want from me, Philip. I don't know what you want from me. Put it on the board. And then they just want to give an answer. If there is an answer to this question, that is anything other than I'll give you the money myself. Okay. All right. And to be honest with you, I've got. I've got a tin of quality streak coming my way. I might. I might divvy them up. So, crazy avocado question. Why do some chocolates have foil on them? What is the. What's the science? Is there any science on spicy foods and overdue pregnancies? And why do we call cranes plant when talking about plant higher? 30 minutes after twelve is the time candy is in Ealing. Question or answer? Candy question. Go on. Why do cats have cat litter and dogs don't? Oh, this is easy. Actually. Have I tried to answer every single question? So far? I've not got a single round of applause. Yeah. All right. Well, I know this one because I've got cats and a dog, and dog poo really stinks much worse than cat poo does. Yeah, but why would you want cat poo in your house and not dog? Well, because you can't take your cat for a walk, candy. But they go in the garden. They can do. Some people don't like that. Usually you only have cat litter at the stage where you're training. The cat to know where it's going to. Loads of friends on this. And they've all got cats that go outside. Yes. They've got cat litter in their house. Well, then why are you asking me? Ask them. Yeah, but why does it. Why is that not the same thing for dogs? Because dog poo really stinks and it's toxic in it. I mean, there's no comparison between the two of them. Have you got a nose? Do you possess. Oh, actually, I should presume you can smell, can you? Yeah. Right, well, what would you rather smell? A big dog poo or a cat poo? I'm not a smell either. Yeah, but I'm not offering you a third choice. It's dog poo or cat poo candy. Which would you rather smell? What would you. Would you rather have on your. On your. On your. A little bit stuck on your fingertip or your shoe or something? I wouldn't want either on. No, I know, but I'm not giving you that option. It's one or the other. Cat or dog. Choose now. Neither. No, that's not allowed. Give me a round of applause. Thank you, cat. So the litter wouldn't work. Why your friends have cat litter and have a cat that goes in and out? I don't know. Probably because they lock it in at night. Do they lock it in at night? I don't know. Well, then that's what you need to find out. Don't come here with your half bait theories. I want full 12, 15, 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do we call it plant when we are renting a crane? For example, what is the science regarding the old wives tale that spicy food can help bring on an overdue pregnancy? Why do some chocolates have foils on them? Foil on them. And Philip wants to know why. Why his avocado didn't go brown when he took the stone out and put it in a glass of water? There may be something in that, but frankly, I doubt it. Greg's in ricelip. Greg, question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on. When I was young, I fell off a wall and clipped a little bit of my ear off. When my son was born, he's got the same bit of ear missing. I want to know if there's any kind of genetic thing or if it's just coincidence. Coincidence, definitely. Definitely. Okay. I feel a bit bad now. I should be able to give. There's no earthly way that can be science. You can't be. There's no way that you make. It's one sperm. It's one little sperm that is somehow containing the knowledge that you've had a chunk taken out of your ear during your childhood? Well, I don't know. That's why I'm asking the question. Well, I'm answering it. There's no way a sperm can know what your ear looks like after. After it's been, you know, how it's changed from what it was like when it was made the first time, like an earbud. Qualifications, sort of common sense is I feel bad now, Greg, because every time I think a question is stupid. No, I don't. I do feel bad, Greg. A. I feel that, you know, this should have been a big moment for you, getting on mystery, Aaron, and I feel I kind of popped your balloon a bit and be well, that's even worse if you're a relatively new listener. I want roll, I want party poppers, I want to roll out the red carpet, helium balloons, that kind of thing. And I've got given you nothing. I've just sort of given you a bit of a sort of wet blanket of an answer, really. You've given me two minutes of air and that's fantastic. Bless him. I'll tell you what, do you want to share the round of applause? That'd be great. How's that? Don't even think of ringing me to say no. Actually, if he did have a piece of his ear bitten off as a child, it's perfectly likely that he would pass on that attribute. It's just not possible. Even less likely than the avocado stone. Khalid's in forest gate. Khalid, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Hey, how do they install high power pylons on mountains? And how do they pull the wires across the gorges and mountains to connect the pylons? Well, they do it at ground level and then they lift it up to the top. But there's big gorges underneath. It's on top of mountain. Then they use a bow and arrow. You can't do that for a heavy cable. Carry the massive bow and arrow. And how would they do that in top of mountains in northern Pakistan? They use a pakistani bow and arrow. So how do you get. So you've got two mountains and there's a wire crossing from one mountain to the other mountain. Right. And then you got. Yeah, there's two pylons. First of all, how do they build a pylon on the mountain? Well, hang on a minute. It's a bit of. A, bit of a niche question, this, Khalid. I don't think anyone asked that question anymore? No, but you can only have one question. So what's it going to be? How do they build a pylon on a mountain? That's easy. They climb up a mountain with everything they need to build a pylon, and they build a pylon and then they climb down again. How do they build a pylon? What do you mean, how do they build a pylon? How do you build a pylon anywhere? Yeah. How do I take all the material all the way up there? Donkeys. Donkeys, donkeys. If it's really tough. Trucks. If it isn't. But there's no roadways. Well, then it's donkeys. Donkeys. Straight up donkey boom. Or they don't. Or, ah. Or they drop it from above using a helicopter. Well, in northern Pakistan, I need to see. Look, northern Pakistan is not. It's not my manner. Okay. So I need to see some pictures of what you're describing to understand what you're so confused about. Well, due to pylons that, like. All right, here's the thing. If anybody listening to this program has any experience whatsoever of installing pylons or high voltage cables in the mountains of northern Pakistan, ring me now. Otherwise. Otherwise, I don't know what we're going to do. Khalid. Hopefully, they'll be next. Yeah. Stranger things have happened, my friend. It'll be a Rayleigh otter moment, that's for sure. Yeah, definitely. All right, so if you know how the mountains of northern Pakistan got electrified, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Oh, Emily's in Stevenage. Emily. Question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Carry on. It's by the avocado. Shut up. I don't know about the fact that that guy said about the glass of water and all that, but leaving your avocado stone with a salad. So you've just cut your avocado and you leave the stone in it will prevent it from going brown. Yeah, I buy that. I buy that. That's fine. But that's because they're touching. Okay. Okay. Fair enough. A lot of people don't know about that. So maybe your listeners, normally, people put lime juice or lemon juice or whatever, you can do that as well. A little bit of acid. You need it in a salad. But I don't know that what you're telling me is true, but you seem like an extremely trustworthy woman, so I'm not going to challenge what you're saying, but that's not what the question. Freaky Philip wanted to know why his avocado didn't go brown if the stone was in a glass of water on the other side of the kitchen. Yeah, so I didn't buy that. But I just thought that it. Yeah, I just. I just thought that it worked with the salad. That's the. A lot of people don't know this, and every time I talk to people about it, they like licking a stunt buffer. Maybe your listeners. Well, it's nice of you to share the information, but you're not actually answering the question that Philip asked. It's just turned into a sort of diet tips hour. Sorry, Joe. That's all right. Have a round of applause just for being so nice. Oh, so kind of you. That's my pleasure. It's my pleasure. What a happy space. What a safe space this show is. 26 minutes after twelve is the time Lucy is in Plumstead. Question or answer? Lucy. It's a question, James. My radio has rechargeable batteries that I charged at the weekend to listen to you on Monday. Yeah. Good morning. I was sick and then I came to my radio yesterday, looking forward to listening to you. You can listen to me when you're sick. Well, I couldn't because I was sick, all right? Very sick. Yesterday. My batteries were dead. And I want to know, do rechargeable batteries leach power if the power isn't actually being used? Are you sure they were full of power? Maybe you forgot to turn it on or something. No, no, no. It was a low battery yesterday and it would not work at all. But I'm talking about on Monday. On Monday my batteries were full. But how do you know you were too ill to listen to the radio? There's no way you were checking your battery levels? No, they were full on Sunday night. So it's got. The batteries have gone down without being used at all. Yeah. Which wouldn't happen with non rechargeable batteries. But you're wondering whether there's something specific to rechargeable batteries, which means that they lose power even when not being used. Exactly. Seems unlikely. But you never know, do you? Well, this is what I mean, because I know you can't charge, but rechargeable batteries, like, forever, you have to buy new ones after so many years. Well, that's why I was wondering whether yours had actually reached the end of their life. I only bought them last year and the ones I had before. That was going on for years. How often do you recharge them then? I charge them every night. Right. Did you charge them last night? No, because I'm not at work today. I'm not out today. So this is the first time that you've had problems with your rechargeable batteries? Generally, yes. Maybe you bought some duds? No, I didn't buy some. So it's all been. They've been working fine since you bought them? Yeah. And then all of a sudden they're telling me there's no power and I charged them fully. They've gone from high to low with. No. From high to low with no radio. Exactly. I was very upset not to hear you yesterday. I'd missed you Monday and Tuesday. Oh, you didn't miss it? Oh, don't worry, Lucy. It's all right. Um, could you have left your radio on but the volume on zero, by any chance? Are you sure? No, I'm sure. All right. Okay. I'll put. I'll put the question on for you. I feel I should do something to mark the fact that you've got your radio on again after a few days of silence. What would you like me to do? Anything. Oh, yeah. I don't know. Hippie parade. Hippie parade. Is that it? Is that's all you want? Yeah. All right. Hippie parade. How is that? That's great. Thank you, James. You're very welcome. I'm not doing requests, by the way. She's mystery misses Usherwood got a happy birthday yesterday. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, the mountains of northern Pakistan and the curious properties of avocado pears. There's something for everybody today. If you can answer any of the questions that you've already heard. Zero 345-606-0973 otherwise, we've got room for a couple more. I'll remind you of what they are after the very latest news headlines with Simon Conway, the mother with James O'Brien on LBC 1233 is the time question. Some controversy over the quality of the questions this week. I suspect that. I think it's your problem if you don't rate these. There are a couple of red herrings in there, a couple of humdingers generally, I'd say it was well above average. Here's the things that we currently need to know. What is the science? Is there any science behind the claim that spicy food can help bring on a pregnancy? Why do we talk of plant when we hire a crane or heavy machinery? Why is heavy machinery called plant? Why do some chocolates have foil on them? I'm very reluctant to keep that avocado question on the board. Similarly, the ear question, I think we dealt with. How do they get pylons and cables into very tricky mountainous regions? Do they come from above or below or something else? That's actually a better question than I realized. My apologies to Khalid for laughing at him like a drain. And. Yeah, rechargeable batteries, do they run down even when they're not being used in a way that non rechargeable batteries don't? Something there for everyone. Sean's in stone. Shaun, question or answer? It's another question, I'm afraid. James. No, no. We need. We're getting lots of questions ready and then we'll go through the answers like a hot knife through butter. Shaun, it's all. It's all planned, mate. It's all planned. I look forward to it. My question is around salt water. Yes. If you are swimming in a sea on holiday, is it bad for you to drink too much salt water accidentally? Because we were on holiday recently this year and my wife accidentally has swallowed an awful lot of salt water and salt is very bad for you. So we're just wondering whether that would affect your dinner plans for the evening. If you were regularly swallowing salt water from the sea. Well, you can. I mean. Well, it would do. Yeah. I mean, mostly through fluid retention. The more salt that you've got in your system that you. The more fluid you're going to retain. But, I mean, even non salt water is bad for you if you drink enough. I don't quite understand the question. Are you wondering how much. I mean, go on. Yes, pretty much. If you look at the front of the food pack, it will always tell you how much salt in it and what percentage of your, you know, regular, your daily is within that piece of food. But that's bound to be affected by the salt in the salt water, is it? Yeah, I mean, it's. I hesitate to be indelicate on this one, but it's. It's. It's to do with wheat, because your kidneys make your urine and your urine is salty and it can only make urine that is. It can't make urine that's saltier than salt water. So. No, no, no. So the more. Yeah, go on. How much saltwater is bad for you? If you keep weeing, you should be all right. If you get it all out of your system, then you should be all right. But you need to keep drinking non seawater in order to dilute this. Well, none of it's good for you. I mean, it's no different from your RDA, your recommended daily allowance. So if you go over that, then you. What? That's the phrase I was looking for, but that's it. It's just hard to. It's hard to measure your RDA in saltwater, but it's possible. And if you go over your RDA, then you move into sort of slightly troubling territory. But I wouldn't worry about it until. Until you've got so much sort of salt water inside you that you don't. I mean, yes, you will be having problems. What? How would you know? Well, because you'd be retaining water. How much salts in my system, you know, I would need to change my dinner plans for the evening. Yeah, you wouldn't really change your dinner plans because you'd feel. I. You. Do you want what, you want the number of gulps or something like that? You want someone to ring and say, 18 gulps? Tell Sean. Tell Sean 18 gulps is a problem, but 17, he should be fine. I mean, it depends how big you are. It depends what else you've eaten. It depends. Doesn't. I mean, how did your wife feel anyway? Was she all right? She was all right, yeah. She's just concerned, you know, that she'd be. Maybe she's not a very strong swimmer and maybe she was concerned that she might be drinking more salt water than was particularly good for her. Well, I shall put it. I'll put it on the board. How much salt water do you have to drink for it to become a problem? Yeah. Thank you very much. Why are you laughing at your own question? To be fair, I'm going to throw her under the bus now. It was her question and I cheese at work, so I called up for it. Quite right, too. Not throwing her under the bus at all. It might turn out to be a brilliant question. It clearly isn't good for you. Otherwise, you know, we'd drink it all the time. It's much tastier than normal water. 1237 is the time Daryl is in Hackney. Question or answer, Darryl? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. Um, the link between, uh, shoesmiths and locksmiths, you might think. I'm not saying that, but, you know, whenever you drive past a shoe repair shop. Yeah. They kind of cut keys. Yeah. So is there a link? Oh, I see. No, it's just. It's, um. Oh, we've had this before. I thought you may have. It's a locksmith. So you've got. It's a blacksmith. Locksmith. Cobbler. So is it not something to do with the machine? Isn't it something to do with the machine that you use the same machine for cutting keys that you do for cobble. Doing some cobbler? No, you're not gonna buy that, are you? No, sorry, mate. No, I wouldn't either, mate, to be honest with you, machines are very similar looking, because the one that you put the key in to replicate a key that. So if you take your door key down to have a replica made. Yeah, it's a similar sort of looking machine. But obviously one polishes shows and one cuts keys, so maybe they do. Maybe it's the same machine. You just change something on it, like, you know, like on your food mixer when you move from your balloon whisk to you, to your bread, just to your doughnut. It would be a grinding wheel, wouldn't it? Yeah. Or a polish brush. Yeah. That's not a bad shout. But you're not having it. You're still not having it. No, it's not. I'm not having it. It's just if you had a shoesmith or a locksmith come on and give us. Do you know who we need? I'll tell you. We need professional side. No, no, no. I don't know if he's listening. We need Lee McDonald to give us a ring. You remember Sammo out at Grange Hill? Because he now runs a locksmith. He's got a locksmith now. He was in touch a couple of months ago. We need. We need someone to tell it. Are you in a cab at the moment? Me? Yeah. Yeah. Well, a black. A black cab. Black cab, yeah. Can I give you. Can I ask you a question? Do you know who Frederick Hitch is? No, mate, you're asking the wrong person. No, I'm not. I'm asking the right person. All cab drivers should know Frederick Hitch is gone. I just found his tomb. Inches. Frederick Hitch is the only London cab driver to receive the Victoria Cross. And he received it personally from Queen Victoria after his heroics at Rorke's drift. The military engagement that is commemorated in Zulu. And he's buried in Chiswick burial ground in a whopping great tomb with it, with a soldier's helmet on top. Do you know what I thought when I saw that? Darryl, come here a minute. There's no one listening. I was going to ask the first cabbie I met, so. I discovered it yesterday. I was going to ask the first cabbie I met whether that kind of stuff is included in the knowledge. But obviously it isn't. No, it's not. Maybe, yeah, Chizik is. But I would add five. Five things. I want cabbie based trivia. There should be five things added to the knowledge that allow you to regale your passengers with fascinating pieces of information about the area through which they're passing. Yep. Or not. So some cabbies do. Some cabbies do. It's called the blue badge. I see you're right, actually. No, of course it is. Right. I'll get you an answer to your question. What's the relationship between cobblers and locksmiths? Zero. 345-606-0973 Frederick Hitch. I hope I got the fellow's name right after that. Yeah, I'm sure I did. I love that kind of information. Helen is in Etchingham. Helen, question or answer? Hello, Jay. Hello, Helen. It's an answer. Carry on. It's to the eating spicy food to help bring on labour. And, yes, there is some truth behind it. The theory being that very often a woman, when she's sort of preparing for labour, her body will get ready by often having quite an upset tummy. And it's almost like getting everything out of the system before then. All the focus goes on pushing a baby out and, to put it delicately, not pushing other things out. So just a general loosening. A general loosening of the system. And some people will have spicy food and be a little bit of an upset tummy after, because that's what spicy food can do. It can irritate the bowel, etcetera, and it can get things triggered. It's not sort of a scientific thing, but a lot of midwives will say worse ago and quite often, having that slightly upset tummy will get things going. Qualifications? Two babies and a very good friend who's a midwife. And I remember asking her, that'll do, that'll do. So there is science involved. It's just we don't know any long words to describe it. No, that'll do. And we have to keep it delicate. No, of course we do. I thought we did a good job of keeping it delicate, unlike with candy and a cat and dog question, which I sense might have put a few people off their lunch, for which I apologize, a little retrospectively. Round of applause for Helen, please. Good work, Helen. And, of course, Dan up in York needs now to go and buy his friend. Doesn't need to be a vindaloo. Should be right with a kebab, actually. Just put on a bit of extra chilli sauce. Keith's in bagshot. Keith, question or answer a question, please carry on, Keith. What is the difference between a cobweb and a spider's web. There isn't one. Yeah. I just wonder, you know, a cob. Cob is just an old english word for a spider, mate. All right. Okay. It's only because I was a little bit fascinated. My mother used to live above the cobwebs in Richmond. Near Richmond Theatre. Oh, yes. And that it brought it to my attention. No, it will. It would. Beautiful part of town. And I think they changed the name now, haven't they, to some fancy name? I don't know. I just know where you mean. The Greenway Richmond Theatre is a lot. Is a lovely part of town, but. But the short answer is a cobb is just an old fashioned name for a spider. Oh, thank you. I've been waiting for that for years. I'm 74 years old. How many years, roughly, do you think you've been waiting for it? Probably 60. 60. As many as 60 years. And finally, mystery hour has provided you with the sort of satisfaction you couldn't find anywhere else for six decades, Keith. That's right. And I'm fascinated by this program. I love it. Oh, bless you, Keith. Thank you. In fact, I've got another round of applause, but I'm going to give this one to you, Keith. All right. No, thank you very much. 60 years. 60 years searching a mystery our delivers. 1244 is the time. Tim is in Barry St Edmunds. Tim, question or answer? After the fully justified complaints, I'd like to raise the quality and standard of questions. You're not winning friends, Tim. You better hurry up before I fade you out in a very rude but hilarious fashion. By the way, you're due another round of applause before one which upsets me greatly. Go on. But anyway, certain products and services are by appointment to Her Majesty the Queen, purveyors of a certain, say, mustard from Norwich, or an expertly blended saucer in Worcester. The question is, when Her Majesty eventually makes way for King Charles, will those royal appointments have to be reapplied for or reassigned by his Majesty King Charles? Yes. Because he has his own as well, doesn't he already? Does he? Yes. So you can have a royal. A royal. What are they called? Did you get the word right? It's like a. It's not just an endorsement, is it? There's a special word for appointment. So he has his own right now. He has it so you can buy whiskey or whatever it is by appointment to HRH Prince Charles. So. So. So the mustard gets dropped off the list. The. Well, I imagine that they just get upgraded and they give him a list and they say, here's all the ones your mum had. Any. Any. Any stuff here you don't like. And he goes, I'm not very fond of Worcestershire. Put some ketchup on there. So there might be a little bit of negotiation and given to take, but it needs a new royal bump stamp. Right, that's two rounds of applause, then, obviously coming your way before one. You're never going to get your head throughout. Through the studio door. Close. A change plus a change. What was the other one? Oh, it was the electricity one, because I was actually. No, I. Don't spoil. No, don't spoil it, don't spoil it, because someone else will be ringing in with the answer to that. And, you know, I want two people to tell me that I'm right. Why? Why, why only. Yeah, Rand Paul's for me. Yeah. Charter. Is it a royal charter? No, it's not. Anyway. 1245. Yeah. With James O'Brien on LBC. This is for Keith in Bagshot, who waited 60 years to get an answer to his question about the cobweb. And he was interested in cobwebs because his mother used to live above the pub called the cobweb in Richmond. And you're right, Matt Cole. You, sir, are a man after my own heart. He's tweeted to say, the cobweb in Richmond is now known as the Duke. Before that, it was the racing page. Pubs are my thing. Round of applause for Matt Cole. Don't normally take stuff on Twitter, but, hey, I'm feeling the need to break out of some of the sort of strictures of mystery hour, given that on election day, there are so many in place. And the other 2 hours of the program, 1250 is the time. Questions that still need answers are in front of me, but I'm going to get a couple on the board first. Philip is in Charlton. Question or answer? Philip. Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on. Now, it's about the pylons. Oh, yes. Okay. So if there's a ravine, helicopters will deliver the pylons in sections, and also, if it's a long span, they'll deliver the cables by helicopter as well. So there'll be people on the ground, but only to. Only to deal with the stuff that's coming down from the sky, as it were. Yes, that is kind of what I thought, but I didn't know for sure. So I need to ask you. What? Yeah, you did mention helicopters, but I thought I'd. No, mate, you've gone definitive. Depending on your answer to the next question. What are your qualifications? How do you know this? My qualifications are I watch the program. There's two programs, how it's made and how do they do it? And I watch the program about that on how do they do it. Fair play. You're not going to get a rate. You're not going to get a rayleigh ota. For that. To get a Rayleighota, you would have had to say something like, well, funnily enough, James, I was responsible for installing electricity in the Khyber Pass. Well, I'd love to, but I am going to get a round of applause, surely. Yeah, you're going to get a round of applause, but you're not going to get a Ray Liotta. Well, I can deal with that. All right. Good man. That's also a mark of, you know, we've got to keep the race special. Dan is in Bromley. Question or answer, Dan? Hi, James. I've got an answer. Carry on. And to the chocolate question. Why do some chocolates have foil on them? Yeah. So chocolates that are usually kept in foil normally have a liquid caramel or ganache center. So the outside is only a thin layer of chocolate holding it in shape. So the foil protects it from. If you leave it near a heat source or wireless transport that's transported, it keeps the shape of the chocolate. Oh. So, I mean, the questioner was confused as to why the last box of chocolates he bought, the strawberry cream, had a foil on it, but the orange cream didn't. So the answer will be that the orange cream might have been thicker than the strawberry cream, a higher melting temperature than the strawberry cream. Qualifications? I work for a fast moving consumer goods company. What does that mean? So, I work for a company that packages goods that are quickly sold quickly at a low cost. Fair enough. Yeah. Including chocolate, soft drinks, toiletries. Round of applause for Dan. Nice work and that. Yeah, it makes sense when you say, I just thought it made it look posher, but that was a bit stupid in retrospect. Dustin's in Lingfield. Dustin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Dustin. Um, there isn't a link between cutting keys and repairing shoes. It's just another way for a cobbler to make money, isn't it? Isn't it something to do with the lathe? Uh, no. I presume. I presume from that condescending. From that condescending. Laughter I presume you're either a cobbler or a locksmith. I am a cobbler, yeah. Do you do keys? I cut keys, yes. What machine do you use to cut the keys. A key cutting machine. What machine? Cylinder machine. And what machines you used to cobble. It'd be a shoe finisher and then. No link. There's two separate, completely separate machines in your shop. Completely separate machines. One's a tiny little machine that sits on the bench and one's a huge, great machine that you repair shoes on. Could it? Could you? I mean, could it would it always. Wouldn't there have been a time when it was the same machine? No. How do you know? How old are you? I'm the same age as you, James. Then you're not old enough to know. There might have been, you know, 50 years ago that used the same machine 50 years ago. Cobblers didn't cut keys. They didn't start doing it till the seventies. Why did they start doing it in the seventies? Because shoe repairs started dropping off, so they needed another way to. It was just. Just coincidence. Just. That just happened upon key cutting. Who was cutting keys before cobblers started cutting keys? Locksmiths. He's got an answer for everything, this one. Give him a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1254 is the time I want the rechargeable batteries. Question. Answer. We've done the cables, we've done that, done the avocado, we've done the chocolates, we've done pregnant and spicy. Plant higher. Why is heavy machinery called plant saltwater? How much salt water can you drink before getting poorly? And how poorly will you get and do rechargeable batteries run down when they're not being used in a way that non rechargeable batteries don't. Locke Smith, is there anything else that we should have done? Chris is in Shaftesbury. Chris, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. Chris, great to speak to you again, by the way. Likewise, Chris. Yeah, so it depends which kind of rechargeable battery it is. If it is a battery that is alkaline. Yes. Then they will hold their charge for a lot, lot longer. It is a nickel metal hydrate battery, then. Chris, I'm going to come back to you in a minute. I just need to tell the producer off. All right? Can you just bear with me for a moment? Yeah. Caroline. Lee is trying to get through. Lee McDonald is trying to get through. And now. Now he's not going to. He says, I'm trying to get through. Read the locksmith and shoe repairs. But it's just been answered. Love your show. Cheers. Ammo, mate. This is my hero from my childhood and he was trying to get through to the program and we've blown it by putting someone else on. What's going on? Time is it? I've got four minutes left. I might just do a silence to punish everybody. Okay. You can't clear the boy. It's flipping Zamo. I told you he was gonna ring in. It would have been Rayleigh o. Two twice. Lee. I'm sorry. Lee. Next time we get a locksmith question, I'm not gonna let anybody else answer it until I tell you. Chris, where were we, mate? Alkaline. What? Sorry, I'm in fits and giggles now. Damn. Sorry. It's not fair play. So if it's a. If it's a nickel metal hydrate battery, and they will self discharge anyway in a relatively short period of time. Well, it depends on the size of the battery, what mah you're looking at. But if you're looking at basic household batteries, probably, I reckon they'd be double as on her radio, don't you? Yeah, they're single cell batteries, so that. Well, I can't answer that. But I can tell you that depending on what the batteries are made of, then whether they'll charge quickly or not. And it's possible because the idea was she charged it up at the weekend and it had run out by today and she hasn't had it on. Is that possible? Yes. Because if you. If you continuously try and recharge a rechargeable battery. I know this sounds weird. No, it doesn't. But you will eventually kill the cells. It's like with your mobile phone. If you charge it every night, you will lose battery life the longer you do it. Yeah, but she's only had him a year. She doesn't think. They've kind of, you know, worn down. Hmm. Well, that's the only explanation I can. Really? Pretty impressive. What are you. What are your qualifications? An inquisitive mind. What was that word again? The Nicky Nicky Noki doodle is a nickel metal hydrate. Of course it is. Round of applause for Chris. I have no idea what he's talking about. He used the longest word of mystery, so he gets an honorary round of applause. Or. Anyway, Pablo's in. Barry. Hello, Pablo. Question or answer? I've got an answer. Come on, then. You're gonna kick yourself when I tell you this, because it's. You've got a cat, so you realize you already knew the answer. Cats. The reason why there's a little tray for cats is because they bury their poo and dogs don't. Dogs don't. You couldn't have. You couldn't have a dog that to tray because they would the smell. Yeah. So I was kind of. I was kind of right. But not as right as you are. Yeah. Brilliant. Do I get a round of applause? I think you probably do. Qualifications? Yes. Don't really need it. I've watched a dog do a poo. James. That's a pretty much all the qualifications. Yeah. I'm quite old. Round of apparent. Great work. Hussein is in Norwich. Hussein. Question or answer? Answer. Go on quickly. We're short of time. Yeah. Saltwater. It won't do you any harm unless you drink it every day. And the reason is because your hormone regulation for salt and water retention will reset to retain more water and then raise your blood pressure. So having too much salt for one day is not a problem. But exceeding your recommended daily allowance every day, whether it's salt water or any other source of salt, then that will be bad for you. Qualifications? I'm a doctor. Haha. Trust me. That's a brilliant mystery. I thank you. You. Have we got any still on the board? Just plant higher. So I'm going to stick with my original answer. Round of applause for. And that concludes another mischief. Tomorrow we'll be able to talk about that thing that's happening that we can't talk about today. Sheila Fogarty's next. In fact she's here now. I am. Hello. Hello. Thank you.