A Christmas themed Mystery Hour this week

Three minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The mystery hours upon us. Sure. I did it dressed as Father Christmas last year. Do you remember? That won't be happening again. Or was it the year before? I must have been mad. Who the hell's idea was that? But if you want to bring a christmasy theme to it, you can. I would caution you, though, that the most obvious Christmas questions have probably already been answered. You can check over at the archive, LBC dot co dot UK. If you've no idea what I'm talking about, then you should know only this. This is the only hour of radio anywhere in the world that comes with two cast iron money back guarantees. You will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. You just will. May not be knowledge you're grateful for, but you'll have more of it. You may not hang on to it for long, but you will have more of it. And I think you'll laugh out loud. That is a cast iron guarantee as well. I've never had to issue any refunds. You should have at least one laugh out loud moment between now and 01:00. The way it works is thus you ring me with a question, someone else rings in with the answer. It can't be boring and it. You can't be repetitious boring. You can kind of police yourself. The management's decision is final. Seriously, if it's a question that you, on reflection, don't really think anyone else is going to be interested in the answer to, it's probably boring. It's quite difficult to define it. If it's to do with motoring, it almost certainly is boring, but not 100% certain. Repetition is our job to look out for. Unless you do us a favor and check the archive first. A who, a why, a where, a when, a what, a whither. We get the occasional wherefore. We even had the odd whence. They all work, whatever it is. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? Is that going to work? What? And the kids are of course broken up, I presume the kids are broken up. I think my kids were the latest to break up in the whole of Christendom. They only broke up yesterday. It's practically Christmas already. But the kids have broken up, so they might have a question that needs an answer. Or you might have just seen something Christmassy, which would be nice. It has a nice sort of christmasy feel to it. But it doesn't have to be Christmassy. It's not specific. Phone lines are up and running. I'll only say the number if I've got a phone line free. Okay. So it's a fairly simple way of doing things and it gets so busy. I've got the busiest switchboard in town, but on Thursdays between twelve and one, it goes absolutely bonkers. If you hear me say the number, it means there's a phone line free. Judicious use of redial, I'm told, is the best way to get through. It's certainly going to be more likely to get through using redar than you are emailing me to complain about the fact that you can't get through. That holds true across the whole 15 hours we spend together every week. Not just this one, but it's even more true about this hour than it is all the others. Six minutes after twelve is the time Richard is in Ealing to kick us off this week. Question or answer, Richard? It's a question. A Christmas question. Christmas question, no less. Carry on. I've been trying to read for the last two years of this question. It is this. Christmas lights. Do flashing Christmas lights use up half of the electricity to static Christmas lights? It's quite, quite good. But how do they work, flashing Christmas lights? I don't know. I have a theory about the. Well, they're either on or off. Whether the electricity goes on or off. Yeah. In which case it's half of the electricity or there is the electricity going from one light to the other using possibly osmosis. It definitely won't be osmosis and you definitely don't get a hallelujah chorus for that. Really? No, not in a million years, mate. It only works if you use the word correctly and accurately. It would have been a bimetallic strip back in the day was how they did flashing light. So it would flick on and flick off. Right. But I don't know. Where does the electricity go when it's off? Well, exactly. Because what I was hoping was to save the nation a lot of money by buying flashing Christmas lights and turn us all into a nation of flashes. Yeah, it was going quite well. I wouldn't have. Personally, I wouldn't have thrown in that gag at the end, Richard, because I quite like the question. Even by the standards of Christmas crackers, that was poor. But I like the question. I flashing if the Christmas lights are flashing, do they use up half the electricity? Zero. 345-606-0973 I don't know why. I kind of very distant memory of physics doing this and it being quite counterintuitive, but I could be wrong. Derry's in Wigan. Derry. Question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Merry Christmas, by the way. Merry Christmas to you, Derry. So we've been trying to convince my four year old daughter to get a haircut, and she is refusing, point blank. She doesn't want to cut it. She wants it long. So we've told her, you know, if you get it cut, it will grow longer. But the question came yesterday on the way home from school. Yeah, how long can I grow it, daddy? Can I grow it as long as Rapunzel? So I said, well, you can grow it as far as you want, but how long can you grow a hair if you never cut it? How long would it grow? Well, yeah, if you just carried on and it went, would it grow and grow and grow? Yeah. Yeah, it just would. But then why don't more people? I don't know. Why don't you see somebody like Rapunzel walking around the street? Just think about it for a minute, man. It'd be a nightmare. Be an absolute nightmare. Without even thinking about knits. Think about the knots. But surely at some point it must slow down or stop growing. Don't think it carries on. Your hair carries on growing. I'll tell you what, Derry, I know this. It carries on growing, in some cases, after you're dead. And is this. You going definitive on it, James? Well, if the question is does, is there a point at which your hair is so long it stops growing, the answer is no, there is no point at which your hair stops growing. I am going to go definitive on that. I can tell my four year old that she can grow her hair as long as rapunzel, and I'm not going to be seen to be a liar. No, it will if she dies. But is this really what you want, though? I thought the whole problem was that she didn't want to get her hair cut. And you're telling her that if she does have a haircut, she need never cut it again until it's long enough to allow a prince to climb up a tower to visit her against the wishes of her evil stepmother? Yeah, that's pretty much it. All right. If you're saying that's fine, then I'm not entirely sure. I would have thought at some point it would stop. Well, two things happen when I get a little bit condescending during mystery hour. Two things happen routinely and traditionally is I end up looking like an idiot. So I'm going to get a bit condescending here. And I'm going to say, well, I'm taking the round of applause, mate. I know for a fact that your hair doesn't stop growing, ever. Unless it literally has fallen out like mine. And I'm going to take the round of applause, but it may well be. And it's another reason to stay tuned. Not as if you didn't have enough already, it may well be that I will be eating humble pie, probably even by the travel news, knowing how these things usually pan out. Oh, well, we'll listen up for that. Let's listen out for that. They're already coming in on text, but I'm pretty sure it doesn't. It never stops. Round of applause for me. We'll soon find out. Ten minutes after Travis retirement. Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your hair. And it does. Maybe it's not after death. That's the other thing, that the skin contracts so it looks like your hair's grown. But there have been cases of coffins being thrown open and tresses galore breaking free of the thingami. Tom's in Crawley. Tom, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. My eight year old son wants to ask it to you. How does your stomach acid not digest your body? Doesn't eat your stomach. What's your name? Joey. Joey, that's a really good question. What do you think the answer might be? No. No idea. What do you think? Why do you think it doesn't happen? I don't know. No, he doesn't know. What am I thinking? That's why he's wrong. Mystery our dad. What are we doing putting him on the spot like this? I know the answer. We've done it quite recently. We've done it quite recently, actually. And it literally is just because of the stomach lining. Alkaline atmosphere in the stomach so that the acid isn't touching the actual flesh. So Joey's thinking it would be like sticking his finger in acid or something. Why wouldn't it eat my finger? And the answer is there's the mucous alkali lining in the stomach. The stomach lining is fluid. It's not part of your body, and it keeps the acid away from the bits that it would actually break down. And do you know, is Joey still there? Tom? Yeah. Do you know what happens when sometimes the stomach acid gets out of your tummy? Joey, do you know what happens? No. You get a really sore bum. That is actually the answer to the question. Happy Christmas, guys. Thank you very much. No, thank you. Great question, Joey. Keep thinking, keep asking. And I'll keep doing this, which is a little bit immodest, but there you go. Christmas Joe is in Watford. Joe. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Go on, then. About the charging Christmas lights. So it uses exactly the same amount of electricity because it's done with a capacitor and a 555 timer chip. What? Damon's terms. And a capacitor is basically a little battery. It fills up and then it empties out again. And the battery attached to the capacitor is always on. So the. So what? You know, I'm going to ask you a really stupid question, don't you? Yeah, go on. Where does all the electricity go when it's on? The off bit of the on off bit. So it fills up and empties out again. It's not actually off at any point. Fills up and empties out again. Ah. So it's like a roadblock. It's like a dam, a lock on a canal. Yeah. So the water's always flowing, but it builds up and builds up and builds up and then dump and then empties again and then builds up and so it never stops. So would it be more electricity than if it was permanently on then, or exactly the same? Actually, I'm not too sure. I guess it'd be the same because it's on the same power supply, but it's definitely not going to be less. You don't get 50% because when it's off, it's off. Otherwise you'd never be able to turn it back on again. Unless the current was constant. Exactly. Yeah. What the hell is that, Joe? I'm walking through the street at the bus gap. Is it? It's not bad. It's not. It's not bad at all. Right. Round of applause for Joe walking through the streets of Watford. Isn't that a song? Sally's in Barnett. Sally, question or answer? Answer. Come on, Sally. Oh, my God, I can't believe it. I'm going to get a round of applause. Yeah. Let's not count any chickens here, sweetheart. Go on. Right, the hair. Answer. Each individual hair has its own growth cycle. So for some people, their genetic cycle will mean that they will only be able to grow seven or eight inches of hair before that hair. Are you reading this? No, I'm a hairdresser. All right, then, go on. So someone might be able to grow their hair down to their shoulders and then that hair will stop, rest and then fall out and get replaced. So not everyone can grow their hair forever and ever and ever. So I've got this completely wrong. I said I'd get embarrassed by the travel news and I've been embarrassed by the travel news. It just seemed like. Which is why you can't grow your eyelashes forever and ever and ever. No, I knew it about eyelashes. I knew it about body hair. I just thought head hair was different. No, it's the same. That's why some people can have really long hair and others can't. So there you go. Qualifications. How do I know you're not making this up? I'm a hairdresser. Anyone could say that. I mean, you give me. Round of applause, please. Go on. Then I send my apology. I sent this. Yeah. All right, madam. I've got loads. Stop showing off. And I send my apologies to Wigan. Okay. Oh, sorry about that one. It's coming up to quarterback. It's just turned 12:15 got some phone lines free, actually, so knocking them off pretty much as soon as you put them on. So ring in now and you will get through. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number. If you've been trying and failing, have another go now. You've actually got a better chance of getting through now than you did 15 minutes ago. So don't put it off. It could be an early Christmas present to yourself. Your mystery hour debut, maybe even your LBC debut. And to add to that, it's got a sort of two to six year cycle of hair and then it will fall out and everyone has a slightly different cycle. So, in. Yeah, in conclusion, I couldn't have actually been more wrong about that if I tried. Happy days, Joanne Webb 19 minutes after twelve. Mystery hour continues. Questions still in need of. I don't know. We got any. Have we done the hair and the Christmas lights or anything else? Is that we're. Crikey. It's all very efficient. What's happened? Mike's in high wicker. Mike, question or answer? Good morning, James. Question. Carry on. Air travel. Oh, yeah. When does long haul become short haul? Or vice versa? Is it based on time zone? Is it based on distance? Is it based on flight time? What a lovely question. I've never thought of that before. Thank you. Short haul? Long haul. Try and work it out. I mean, short hall six. No, not quite even begin to work out. Yeah. You going away for Christmas, Mike? You're doing anything nice? I'm first year in ten years. Not going away. Oh, okay. I'm sorry to have reminded you. Have a great one. Have a great one. Either way, high Wickham has a lot to recommend it at this time. What's the difference between long haul and short haul? That's like. I love the ones that you never thought of. One of my favorite ones ever was last week, and we've been doing this for years, but the relationship between mobile phones, traffic jams and sat nav systems, it was absolutely fascinating. Free podcast, mystery arrow course. So I'm not going to repeat what the answer to that was. Johnny's in Finchley. Johnny, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Yes, it's the question. My question is, is there anything besides light that moves at the speed of light? Is it a trick question or. Well, I don't know. I've got an answer, I think. Oh, no, I want to know what you think. Well, this isn't really how. I don't want to sound ungrateful or un christmassy, but this isn't really how mystery hour works, isn't it? No, because you're gonna say darkness, aren't you? That's it, yeah, that's exactly right, yeah. Yeah. Well, that's really boring. Well, thank you very much. Well, you see, I said you're gonna make me sound un christmasy, but you don't. Don't ring in with rubbish jokes. Well, it's not a joke. Darkness is an absence of light. It is, by definition, nothing. So it can't have properties. But anyway. Hahaha. Michael's in Watford. Michael. Question or answer? Question, please. Was that bad? Was I a bit rude then? Maybe, yeah. Now I feel bad. It's supposed to be all Christmas. I'm gonna blame the producer for putting him through. Yeah, more scrooge like then. Then root. Yeah, but I've heard it so many times and then, of course, I remember that not everybody listening is listening as much as I am. Anyway, where were we? What's your question? Is there a correlation between climate change and the number of large earthquakes that the planet has experienced, especially since the foot of the one in Japan some years back where they say that the Earth sea floor fell by a few meters because the earthquake was so massive, it only needs to take a minute change in the axis of the planet that could affect climate change. Who would know the answer? Who would know the answer? A genealogist or somebody who's into a genealogy. A platonic person. A platonic person. Climate change, whatever causes it. Does it do earthquake? I'd be surprised, but to be honest, I'm making a complete pillock of myself on Mystery hour this week, so I'm loath to offer an opinion. The earthquake in Japan was so massive that they didn't actually say at the time that it did actually change the axis of the planet. Minuscules of millimeters. But even that, could that evoke the climate change that we're experiencing? Let's find out. I mean, I don't want any political controversies during mystery hour, but climate change and earthquakes, any link at all? Zero 345-606-0973 the difference between short haul and long haul number remains the same. And if you've got a question of your own, the number remains the same. Very busy today, but there are lots of churn on the switchboard, so people ringing in, asking questions. There's more and more people discovering the program for the first time, more and more people ringing in with questions that we've actually dealt with. So it means there's quite a lot of turnover. Don't be put off if you don't get through immediately. Keep trying. Tony's in Cyprus. Hello, Tony. Hello, James. You on your holidays there or just sort of. Yeah, well, just about to come home for Christmas. Oh, happy days, happy days. What have you got for me? Question or answer? Well, I used to. I used to fly for a living, so I know the answer to long haul and short haul. Oh, brilliant. Go on. Back in the day, when there was boac and bea, years and years ago, bea, we used to say, stood for back every afternoon, and the answer was that aircraft that could not fly further than the eastern Mediterranean were all part of the short haul fleet and used to do return return flights in the day, whereas long haul was anything that took you so far away that you. You stayed overnight and came back maybe much, much later. Oh, that makes sense, I suppose, doesn't it? So you could go there and back in a day, what, in a 24 hours period or. Well, used to be. Used to be in one duty, really. Back in those days, we used to have aircraft called the trident that could have a range about as far as Tel Aviv. I think we used to say that the eastern Mediterranean was the limit of short haul. Now, how long would that take? Roughly how many hours? About four and a half, 5 hours. That seems reasonable to me. And then anything more than that becomes long haul because the plane is going to stay away overnight. Right, you're on. Yeah, absolutely. Well placed. Safe journey home. Safe journey. Or as they say in Cyprus, call or tax. Edi is 1224. Charlotte is in Chigua. Charlotte, question or answer? Oh, hi. I want to know where. Hi, I want to know where this saying comes from. Stick it in your pipe and smoke it. Where does it come from? Stick it in your pipe and smoke it. I quite like that, actually. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. It's one of my favorites. Something really annoyed me last week and basically I. I was correct person. I just said afterwards, oh, I didn't say it to that person. I said, stick it in your pipe and smoke it. And I just want to know where. Stick that in your pipe. What happened, Charlotte, to annoy you? What was. What was the contagion? Don't worry about it. No, I do worry. I'm a journalist. These things intrigue me. No, no, no, don't worry. It's all sorted. It's all sorted. All right. Just checking, because I'm here if you need me. I'm here if you need me. I've got your back, Charlotte. You know that, right? Thank you. Thank you. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. I like it. What's the origin of that? Where does it come from? Does climate change cause earthquakes? And we've done the difference between long haul and short haul. Terry is in Bromley. Terry, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Terry. I got in from work yesterday. My wife said to me, give me a kiss under the mistletoe. Oh, lord. I said, what's all that about? Yeah. Why do people kiss under the mistletoe? I like it. I also like the way you turned it into sort of like a. Like a little episode from Terry's life. I like that. Instead of just saying, why do we kiss under the mistletoe? Brought your wife into it. I've got an image of your home now. I can see you there feeling a bit. No, no. I said to, what's all that about? What's all that about? And a bit stressed out. At the end of the day, you want to making your way to the fridge, maybe for a sandwich or a tin or something, and your wife's there insisting that you mean kiss her again. Honestly, it's outriders. Our work is never done, Terry, is it? Our work is never done. I think we've done that before, but it's Christmas, so I'm definitely going to leave it on the board. What's the origin of the kissing under the mistletoe? Malarkey, as our earlier caller, who couldn't stop saying the word malarkey, would probably have described it. Terry, did you? Did you, um. Did you? Did you? Did you? Did you, Terry? I just give her a little peg. Yeah, I'm very glad to hear it, Terry. Quite right. So it's Christmas after all, hey? And I actually look forward to next year. 1226 is the time Doug is in Scunthorpe. Doug, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you, Doug. Merry Christmas to you. It's Christmas. It is, yes. That's why. Yes, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. We put wreaths or hang wreaths on doors at Christmas. People do. Some people do, yes. Yes. But they also put them on top of coffins. What's the significance? Is the Christmas wreath to do more with it being the end of the year than it is to do with it being the birth of Jesus and therefore the wreath of Jesus? No, exactly. So it's the end of the year and then they put it on a coffin because it's the end of a life. End of. End of end. It's the end. You use a wreath to mark the end of stuff. Oh, well, I tell my significant other I could be wrong. I don't know. I'm going to give myself a round of applause because I probably need someone who actually knows, rather than me just gassing and trying to work it out. I'm willing for you to have it. Oh, you're very kind. You're very kind indeed, Doug, but I've had enough. I've already made a fool of myself with the wrong answer or no. Plausible. Doug, you're a star. Have a cracking Christmas, won't you? Mind how you go. God bless. Doug, Shane is in London Bridge. Question or answer? Shane on, sir. Come on, then. Mistletoe. Oh, yes. Listen, I'm. I'm on the blag. I'm just. It's an intuitive guess, mate. I'm not interested in your intuitive guesses. I can do intuitive guesses myself. Like your producer shouldn't have put me through there. You're telling me she's already in trouble today. She's just getting worse by the minute. Go on. That. I love it when the callers say, I can't believe the producers put me through. Leaves me a little bit redundant, really. Go on, then. What have you got? Well, you can go off there for a little bit and I'll take over. I reckon it's. It's a pagan fertility, right. To kind of encourage a little bit of shenanigans in the dark months because, you know, to get a bit fruity when we were right. I think you're actually right. Why did you sell it up and set it up as a sort of intuitive. It's. You can't go, I'm making it up. As I go along. But you can't have a round of applause then, because you can't go definitive. You can't prove that you're right or show us the qualification that means we trust you. Can you now, you silly sausage? I'm not after your applause. I feel good enough about myself. Rubbish. Rubbish. You're only saying that because you're insecure. You're right. You're double bluffing me. Double bluff is passive aggression. This. I'm supposed to give you a round of applause now because you said you didn't want one. Well, I'm not going to. How did that happen? Thank you very much. Leave it. I think he's on to something, but I will allow someone else to go definitive. I mean, a lot of the stuff we do, the holly and the ivy, it's a mixture of Christianity. Well, listen here, children. As you well know, whenever religions spread around the world, the missionaries try to sort of co opt existing traditions. Mistletoe has absolute. I don't. How does it have something to do with GT? Anyway, we'll find out. But I thought that was fun, so we got a round of applause. Nicholas Parsons, I shall issue a round of applause simply for being amused. If you want to get stuck in on this. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The time now is 12:30 1233. Why do we kiss under the mistletoe? And why do we use wreaths on both coffins? And at Christmas, what do they have in common? And the origin of the phrase stick that in your pipe and smoke it. I love that. It'd just be something when it. From a music hall song or something like that. But I need to know and is there any relationship between climate change and earthquakes? Of course you can answer no to that question, but you need to tell us how you know what it is that you know. Jake is in East Grinstead. Jake, question or answer? Oh, it's question. Oh, good. Oh, yes, it is. Oh, no, it isn't. Oh, yeah. Happy Christmas, James. Happy Christmas, Jake. What have you got for me? Well, having worked in pantomime around it for the last 30 years, you wouldn't believe it, would you? We don't. I know the origin of pantomime, where it comes from, however, and asking a cast, I don't. They don't know the answer either. Yes. Why? Why do we have young ladies or ladies, actually, not always young. I know they're very rarely young, actually. If you're going where I think you're going. Yeah. Taking the leading roles in some of the major pantomimes, like normally Peter Pan and the lady. Not always. And normally. Normally Dick Whittington, the lady. Yeah. It's a. Well, it's a well established pantomime tradition, isn't it? It is. But where does that come from? I mean, there is always. The sub question as well is how do we have dames as well? So that could be a second question, if you like. No, you're only allowed one. I mean, it may well be that. The second bit. No. Get knotted. No, I'm not doing any of that. No chance. No, no, no. Present question. And no, you haven't at all. It's rubbish. No, no, no, no. I wonder if it's anything to do with the fact that the ugly sisters, or the dames, as you say, are usually played by men, so it kind of even things out a bit. Why? I don't know why. It's a good question. I mean, originally every. Everyone on stage was a man. But you know this. Back in Shakespeare's time, there were no girls on stage. But that doesn't explain why we now do the opposite with the. With the. What do they call principal boy. Principal boy, we call them. And it can be played by quite an old woman, actually. Historically, yes. Yeah. I don't know, mate. That's a lovely question. That's a real. Did you say you were in a pantomime yourself at the moment? Well, I'm not in it, no. I've worked around it for many years, but I'm involved in one. And east quiz did. Check me, Dick Williams. And get there. There you go. You see a free advert as well. They carry on, Meg. Yes, he did. Why? Why do ladies play the male roles in pantomimes? Why do we put wreaths on up at Christmas and on coffins? Why do we kiss under the missile? Etc, etc? Chris is in Market Harborough. Chris question or answer? An answer. Splendid. An answer. An answer to your question about climate change and earthquakes. Oh, yes. Yeah. Because that's quite a difficult one. The answer is that there is a connection. They think. They think there is a connection. And I always thought that it's interesting that there seem to be more and more earthquakes happening, you know, because I used to live in Japan, so I'm fairly familiar with quite a few earthquakes and things like that. And what's intriguing is that the. I always thought there's no connection. And then last year they did some research and they established that the geographical North Pole has changed direction. Historically, it's been moving towards Greenland, and this is not by a huge amount, this is sort of a few feet a year sort of thing going on. And what they've worked out is it started moving towards the UK and it was in the papers and lots of other things like that, and did some research behind it. And the reason why they think it's done it is specifically because the ice at the North Pole has melted. And other areas of ice in the sea, other areas of large masses of water in the seas and also trapped into other areas have caused a different type of wobble. And it's that wobble that is changing the direction. Now, if you think about it, if you can change the direction of the North Pole based upon how we've reallocated water around the planet, what couldn't we do to the tectonic plates in terms of generating or exacerbating earthquakes in different parts of the world? Because that's really what's causing them, is the movement of tectonic plates against each other, alongside each other. I don't know, mate. Honestly. Honestly. It's probably true. Could be complete gibberish for all I know. I just. Not clever. I just didn't keep. What are your qualifications again? I'm married to a scientist, so. And you've genuinely looked into it? Genuinely looked into it. I have genuine. I can answer absolutely, properly your light question. No, you can't, because that thing's. I can. Do you know why? I don't know. Stop it. Why? Stop it? Everyone's doing. Everyone's drunk or something. Has everyone's been at the eggnog? Stop it. I'm in charge. Well, the radio that we're talking on the moment. No, I know radio waves travel as fast as light, but I knew that wasn't what he meant. He thought he was being hilarious by saying darkness is as quick as light. But, yeah, anything on the spectrum is light. Round a round of applause for Chris. Have a good Christmas. And you, mate. Merry, merry, merry Christmas. 1237, David's in queue. Question or answer? David. Hello, James. It's a question. Good man. What is it? Uh, it's what turns prawns or lobsters pink when you cook them. Yeah, okay. I never thought of that. Really? Because they're sort of bluey and grey, aren't they, before you. Yeah, bluey Grey. And as soon as the heat hits them, they turn pink. I mean, it's a chemical reaction of some sort, but what is it? Maybe Professor Howe would know. Good point as well. Yeah. We haven't heard from Professor Howell for a while. Quite hard to get through at the moment, but. But just think. Just giving myself a moment to see if anything pops into my brain. It's not going to, is it? But everything changes color when you cook it, though, doesn't it? Or most things do. Sort of. Might as well ask, why does a leg of lamb go from red to gray or red to brown? Yeah, but it's a. No, it doesn't work because you can almost see that development on a color chart. But. Whereas this pink comes out of nowhere, doesn't it? Yeah. No, and I was getting confused because of flamingos. It's to do with what they eat. They go pink because of. Because of what they eat. It's not going to be true of a prawn and a lobster. Why do prawns go pink when you call them, David? I love that. Do you have. Do you have a bit of prawn on Christmas morning, Christmas Day with your lunches at your starter? Usually. I love me prawns. Yeah. Very traditional in our house as well. Nice bit of prawn, bit of smoked salmon, avocado for the old starter Rooney, David. Thank you very much. Top 39. Graham is in Warrington. Graham. Question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Come on then, mate. You know the. What was that? The Miss kitten under the mistletoe. Oh, yes. Yeah. Right. That other guy's talking codswallow. Right. It is a tradition that's named. Or that goes back to the norse goddess of love who was called Frigga. Frigga. And she. Yeah, she developed asphyxiation with this plant. She loved it and carried it around with her everywhere. And that's. That's where it comes from, kissing under the mistletoe. And I need more. It must be. Why kissing? I have no idea. Well, it's part of love, I suppose, isn't it? I kind of. But why? I didn't. I need. What do you mean? She fell. She fell in love with the plant? Yeah, she. She loved the plant and carried it around with her everywhere. So that's. That's where it comes from. Why do we kiss under it in that case? I have no idea. I only know this because I do a quiz every Tuesday in the local pub. And that was what? Go on, give yourself a plug. What's the local pub? It's actually in sale. It's called the Moorfield. The Moorfield in sale. And are you the quiz master, Graham? I am. Fantastic. So you've got. So you've had it on there before and it goes back to the norse God, Frigga. But I think. I think. I think she. I think you've got it a bit wrong. Frigga's right. Yeah. All about Frigga. But I didn't her son die, and she cried over the death of her son and he was brought back to life by her white berry tears. I don't know. It's a lovely story. I just read the question. You could extend the quiz, Graham. You could have, like, a red button, your director's cut of the quiz with this fascinating extra information every week. You. Seriously, you'd have the biggest quiz in sale. Absolutely. Bonus points. Bonus points for. Yeah, right. You can have a round of applause. But I think that the idea is people who walk under the mistletoe get blessed with. With Frigga's kiss. Yeah, yeah. That sounds good. You do. You're gonna know. You get it. It's all yours. Take it easy. Good luck. But you won't be doing one on Tuesday, will you be too Christmas, you're taking a week off and then back on in the new year. Graham. Monday you go. 1241 is the time. Frigga's kiss sounds like a death metal album or a death metal band, doesn't it? Might well be one. And he was kind of right, the other fella, because norse gods. It's not pagan as such, but it's kind of pre christian, is what he suggested. David is in wreck some. David. We're all over the country today. I love it. Question or answer, David? Carry on. Good man. Stick it in your pipe and smoke it. When I was a student, we were all sitting around and there's some clever guys there, and they're all smoking a recreation cigarette. And it comes from the days when, in the first recording was about the 18 hundreds or something like that. And it was in an american play, but it's basically where people used to sit around. They used to smoke pipes. And it was a. It was a sort of meditation thing, you know, the old men would smoke pipes. Yeah. So it's. It's. It's a. It's basically just symbolic. It's. It's acceptance. Stick it in your pipe and smoke it. Just accept it. But where did it start, you know? Exactly. Well, the only sort of. The first recording that they've actually got is in an american play. Well, I would. I would assume that. What play? Probably it's America or something. I mean, this is going back to when I was a student, right? No, you've done enough. I think you're going to get it. And I mean, that is. It was probably science. I'm back with science. No, you've done pretty well with literature. And of course, I mean, we know what it means. It does just means, you know, sort of. Yeah. It's symbolic. Take it. I like that. I wish we knew the play. Someone else might know. They can text it and I'll read it out. You don't need to. Qualifications. Did it at college. Yeah. Go on then. Have a round of applause, David. How about that? It's twelve, four, 20. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. It's Christmas. If I want to give out a round of applause, then I will. No one can tell me. But I can't. I invented this. If you've got a question, you've still got time to get it on the board. Zero. 345-606-0973 but I really want answers to these questions. Why do prawns and lobsters go pink when you cook them? Why do ladies play the principal boys in pantomimes? Why do women get those parts? Why do we use wreaths at Christmas and at funerals? And we've done the rest. So there's time to get on board. Where are we going now? It's boar is in Barnes. Question or answer? How's it going? Very well. So basically, it's actually my colleague here. He's a qualified pharmacist, but I'll translate to you what he just told me. Yeah, go on. Just try and sort the phone out, will you? I don't be a qualified pharmacist or not. I think you might be talking into the wrong end of it. Okay, 1 second. I'll tell you what, mate. I'll just look after the 810,000 people listening to this. You keep having fun with your mate. John's in Burnley. John, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Question. Jane. Carry on. John, why do we as human beings, when we nod our head for up and down, yes. Side to side for no. I've never met anybody who does it their way around. What's the question then? Why do we do that? Yeah. Why do we do it? Why don't. Why don't other people do it the other way around? Why do we all do it? I think they do. They do. In somewhere in the world you do. Shaking your head means yes. What? Side to side means yes. Yes. Oh, I didn't know that. Yes does that. But that doesn't answer your question. Not really. I mean, like everybody, I've met. It's always up and down. Yes. Sight. Yes. But you're not in outer Mongolia, are you? Or somewhere like that? No, but I'm talking about the majority. I think the majority of people would go up and down for yes, outside side for no. Well, I think. I think in some middle eastern concepts, some middle eastern countries, it's the other way around. Is it? Yes. I've never seen that. Well, how many middle eastern countries have you visited, John? Only a few. Have you really? Yes. Which ones have you been to? Iran? No, I've only been to Tunisia and Egypt. Tunisia is in Africa. They're both in Africa, aren't they? Well, yes. Yeah. I think you need to go to Iran. Lebanon, Syria, maybe. Oh, fine. Okay. Well, I didn't know that. Well, I mean, I don't know for sure. I just. I just think I kind of remember. But we still. I don't know what they. There's no question left now, is there? Well, not really, no, but I feel bad now, John, and it's almost as if you've unwrapped your present and the box is empty. Absolutely right, James. I'll try. Well, I don't know if anyone wants to help John out. You can on zero 345-606-0973 but I'm pretty sure that shaking your head means yes in some countries, not many, but some. Zero 345-606-0973 the number you need if you've got a question, or if you can answer one of the ones that is already on the board. The time now is 1240 512 49 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we want to know why lobsters go pink when you cook them, why leading ladies in pantomimes play the male parts, why we use wreaths at Christmas and at funerals. And what was the last one? The nodding of the head question. I liked John's question. It just fell to pieces a bit when he discovered that in some countries, I think in India, certainly in the south of India, a shake of the head means yes. In Bulgaria, a nod of the head means no. In Greece, you do this thing. When you say no, you kind of. You tut and move your head upwards so you go, ok. And in Greek, nah. Which sounds like no means yes. But these are all confusions. Alan is in Camberley. Alan, question or answer? Oh, hello. Hello, James. Hello. I'm very well. Alan Grant to you, mate. And to you. Question or answer? I believe I have an answer to this shaking head I don't know what the question was now, do you? If you said predominantly, why do people. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Left and right. Yeah. It all stems from when you're a little baby and your mother's feeding you. So imagine being spoon fed and you don't want the food. Yeah, yeah. Automatically move your head. Don't you move your mouth away from the. From the spoon. But you could move it upwards or downwards as well. You don't have to move it sideways, you could just keep your mouth closed. We've all got babies. We all had. When I get anybody that's had a kid. Yeah. Would kind of recognize that. They don't normally go up or down. It's normally left. Alright. And so I heard it on a radio show. Yeah. And that's the reason why that's not really proof, is it? Been on a radio show. It could be all sorts of. Some of the stuff I come out with, mate. Some of the stuff I come out with I should get arrested for. You can't take any of it as gospel. I was about to say that your word is gospel to me. Thank you. Very kind. It's doing well. It's not going to get you a round of applause though, you know. There's no but. Okay, then why don't Bulgarians do it then? Why do Indians shake their head for yes. Well that's what most babies do and that's how it picks up. What do indian babies do? What do indian babies do? I'm just telling you, that's what happens, mate. I know, but it can't be the right answer otherwise everyone in the world. Why don't mean Bulgarians do it the other way around. No, I'm sure I heard it on mystery hour, mate. You did not hear it on mystery out, mate. Me mate. I'll make you mate. You're not having any mystery out, mates. It's not. There's no way you're getting a round of applause for this. Yeah. Why do we nod our heads for yes? Because we move our mouths out of the way of a spoon when we're trying to. When we try to get away from our baby food. No, there's two. There's two facts there that have no relationship. I'm doing it again. I'm getting all cocky and I'm gonna make an arrow. I'm telling you, James, I'm telling you. I wouldn't like it on Christmas. No, I know, I know you believe it, but you're wrong. It's not a question of whether you're lying to me or not. I know you think this is the truth, and I trust you on that, but. But why does it happen then? That's the only reason why it happens. Across most cultures. It doesn't. Most babies get fed. And most people recognize that symbol as a no. Yeah. And that's the reason why. Simple as. Well. Simple as. Don't start getting belligerent, Alan. It's Christmas, mate. Chill out a bit. Oh, mate. I'll tell you what. God bless you all. God bless you, Tiny Tim. There. All the way from Camberley. You're not having a round of applause. Although the way this has gone today, last one of the year, you're almost certainly right. We'll find out. Pam is in service. And Pam. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Pam. It's the wreath. Pardon? The wreath. The wreath. The wreath. Yes, the wreaths. Why do we use them at funerals and at Christmas? Coffins and Christmas. What's that all about? It's to do with everlasting life. So the circle is eternity. And it has no beginning and no end. It's a christian Christianity. And it means life and growth. And you're dying and then go off to the next life, so you're not really dead. That would explain why you put it on a coffin. A christian burial. Why would you have it at Christmas, which is the birth of Jesus? Well, because he's not here anymore. Yeah. Because it's the start of advent. You put it out so you're. So. It's like a circle of life. Yes. Hakuna matata. Definite. Round of applause, please. Qualificate. Hang on a minute, madam. Can we just establish your credentials, please? I taught it in a year two class at the beginning of advent. Yeah. Right. Round of applause for Pam. Happy Christmas, Pam. Thank you. Bye bye. Of course, she was very perfunctory. Just wanted to go. I feel a bit objectified by that. All she wanted me for was the applause. Zack's in Richmond. Crikey, you've been quiet lately. Bad luck, mate. Bad year for you. Yeah. Hi. Hello. Question. Oh, different Zack. Question or answer? Question. By the way, a long time listener and big fan. Oh, thanks, Zachary. Me too. Carry on. My son. My ten year old son has been bothering me for a while with this question and that is that. You know, with keys and locks. Yeah. For example. So how many combinations of locks are they? I mean, can. Can. Is it possible that one key could unlock another person's door or car? I mean, is this a limited, limitless combination of. So good. Yeah. You've got too many. I understand what you're asking, but. But it needs to be in a. In a. In a simpler question, because, I mean, how many combinations of locks are there? That's. That's. That's too big to contemplate. It might be infinite. Right. So is he really asking, is it possible that the same key could. Could end up being made twice? Correct. That could possibly open somebody else's door or somebody else's car? You'd think so, wouldn't you? Yeah, I would think so. I would think so. But I don't know who would know for sure. We need. We just need a locksmith to sort of generally talk to us, don't we? Absolutely. Okay. I'll see what I can do. I like that. Zack, what's your boy's name? Armani. Armani. Give. Give Armani our regards as well. Oh, thank you very much. Thank you very much. We will do our best. Tell her we just got wish merry Christmas by a zed list celebrity or makers? Year 1255 is the time Vincent is in Billericki. Vincent, question or answer? An answer. Carry on, Vincent. Lobsters. Bones? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. The reason why they go pink or orangey pink is because their diet is mainly of plantains. And the plantain is a bacteria, which is that color. That is the reason. Also why the flamingos feathers goes pink, because their diet is mainly made of shrimp. But why only when you cook it does it come out. Why? Because he only. He only comes out once you kill the bacteria. In this case by heat or digestion. Qualifications, Vincent? None. But I like documentaries. No, I know. That's what I mean. Where did you see this? Where did you learn this? Can you remember? Documentary. Yeah. Well, work that out. Which one was it? David Attenborough. Can you remember? I believe so. So, yeah, I like this. Yeah, you're on. Okay. Round of applause for Vincent. Nice work, Vincent. Thank you. Oh, thank you. Happy Christmas to you, too. 1256 is the time. You're knocking them off. How many more can we squeeze in? Zoe is in Chessington. Zoe, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Zoe. The pantomimes it stems from. In the early 18 hundreds, they introduced new laws for London theater or for all theaters that were shot. Restricted child actors on the stage. And because all the roles were written as young men, the closest thing they could get to representing a young man was putting female, young female actresses in boy costumes. So they started using females. And when they realized that it was very popular to have young girls on stage in tight so they could see their form and, you know, things of women they couldn't normally see. I think the word you're looking for is ogle. Ogle, yes, ogle is definitely the word I'm looking for. It became popular and it kind of spread. I like that a lot. Qualifications. I'm descended from a lot of victorian actors and actresses and I do a lot of research into it all the time and a lot of them were in, they were tight wearers in the pantomime. Oh, I. I say it's quite a proud family tradition because I'm very proud of them all. I bet you are. And it's earned you a round of applause as well. I love that. Child labour laws crossed with a sort of little bit of casual perving. Darren is in Milton Keynes. Darren, question or answer? Got an answer, please. Come on then, Darren. Okay, the lock question. Yes, it depends on the lock and now I'll give you. I span on that. If the lock, for example, a tibby lock, which is a lot commonly used to be used on the old fords. Not anymore, mostly. Each lot, each of the cuts has five possible positions. So you have a disc inside, say for example, four discs. Each disc has a possible disc, 0123 or four. So it's five different types of discs and you've got four rows of discs. So it's five times five, times five times five, etcetera. So it depends, it depends on the lock and how many possible cuts on the kit. So there will be duplication? There will be duplication then? Potentially, yeah, yeah. So it depends on the security. So for example, the chubb. A chubb mortise lock. A lever lock, yeah. Has a lot less possible accommodations than a seven lever lock. Of course. And for insurance purposes, you would need to fit a five lever mortise lock if that lock was fitted up to an external door. To meet most insurance criteria. Three lever lock means there's not enough possibilities. You're on, you've got a round of applause. I'm just going to add, because I don't normally enjoy, I don't normally employ Twitter during mystery, but I'm going to make an exception. Richard, he's been in touch and say I had a car key for my metro in the nineties that opened a friend's metro door, but it wouldn't work in the ignition between the two of you. Nailed it. What are your qualifications, Darren? I'm a locksmith, James, that know, call me Mister security. I'm probably one of the most secure people you ever going to meet in terms of everything. Blocks everything. Encryption, you name it. Mister security. Right, Mister security, it's a round of applause. Thank you and happy Christmas. I nearly sort of signed off then, but back tomorrow morning from 10:00 which means, for the second last time this year, I now leave you in the capable hands of Sheila Fokert. Thank you, James.