How does a moth know what colour it is?

James O'Brien, ten till one weekdays on LBC. My goodness me, we've been swimming in the deep end. Actually, you could be forgiven for thinking we've been swimming in treacle for much of this week. So let's get mystery hour up and running. Now, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You have a question. Okay, it's not just me that's relieved to reach mystery. I can't read that out on the radio, Lane, you dirty man. But yes, I completely concur with your thoughts. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. And actually, quickly, while we're concurring with thoughts, one of my favorite tweeters, incorrigible FCA, has changed his name, I've only just noticed, to incorrigible down. And when he tweeted earlier that I had thrown my hat into the ring for the Labour Party leadership, he proved the point. I think that Twitter really, really needs a sarcasm emoji. So please, if you see that popping up in your timeline anytime today, take it with a very large pinch of salt. In fact, whole cellar, although I never say never. 1211 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery era is up and running. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The way it works, briefly, is this. You have a question, an interesting question, which will admit an interesting answer. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need to ask it. If you're familiar with the feature, fill your boots now, because by doing the quick hit on the interest rates rise at the top of the program, it's played havoc with the traditional bombardment of my switchboard. So grab your place now, if you've got a good question. If it's not a good question, we'll politely let you know. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number you need remains the same. You ring in with the answer. I reserve the right to ask you what your qualifications are. But I'm not looking for phds and professorships. I'm merely looking for evidence that what you tell us is true. So you could say to me, for example, I heard it on telly last night, or you could say, I am the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, who is one of our more regular mystery contributors. So I'm looking for a who, a why, a where? A what? A when, a whither, a wherefore. Maybe a whence. What's the origin of all sorts of sort of, you know, how it works. And if you don't sit still, pay attention. You'll soon pick it up. 1212 is the time. Jane's in Wellington in Hertfordshire. Jane, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Jane, why don't you fall out of bed? Well, how do you know? I don't? Well, perhaps you do, but I don't. Oh, you mean everyone. Sorry, I got. We did all the Jeremy Corbyn's. From my own perspective, I thought you were doing the same. Why don't you fall out of bed? I have done on occasion, for a while. Well, I have done myself after a good night out. I think we learn not to, don't we? Because the babies do, that's why. When you move them out of the cot, into the bed, you have to put the bars on the bed to start with. You just learn not to. Wow. I mean, if you move from a double bed to a single bed to a bunk bed, you should fall out more. Yeah. It's a good question. No, it's a very good question. I think it might sleep. So if you're a deep sleep. Yeah. You can't be sort of conscious of the edge of the bed. So is there some. Some sort of subconscious thing in you that stops you falling out of bed? Because if you sleep in a double bed all the time and you go on your holidays and you sleep in a single bed, you should, theoretically, fall out of it. Yeah, but you don't. I know you don't. It's a miracle. I know why it is. I don't know why it is, but I know why it is. Why? It's because we used to sleep in trees to stay away from lions. To stay away from lions and dinosaurs. That's even more difficult. I'm making it up. I. Completely making it. I'm ashamed, actually, and embarrassed. I've let you down. I've let. I've let the station down. But most of all, I've let myself. Let myself down. Why don't we fall out of bed? It's a great question from Jane. How do we learn not to fall out of bed? I remember, actually. When do you remember that? When you take. Take the bars off the side of the kids beds as a mark, that they've now reached an age. It's one of those little mini rites of passage. Ryan is in swaddlingcote in Derby. Ryan, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Ryan. Yeah. When you. Well, when people apply for like, a credit card or they check their credit score. Why does it affect their score? Why does their score always go down? When you have a credit check, your credit rating goes down? I believe so. Doesn't it depend on what they find? I've no idea. I'm asking you the question. Yeah, all right. Clever clocks. That's really interesting. Is it? They always say, it will affect your credit score, don't they? I don't know. I mean, I take your word for it. You seem like a stand up guy. I'm not going to doubt your word, Ryan. Could it be that if you need to have a credit check, that means there's a possibility you'd fail it and if there's a possibility you'd fail it, that's going to have a negative impact on your credit rating? I have no idea. No, I know. Sorry. I'm just thinking out loud. How come we don't fall out of bed? You sleep on the settee, silly man. The best of James O'Brien. Why don't we fall out of bed? That's a lovely question. How do we. Actually, Jim's been in touch with a really lovely little tweet. I don't know why. It warmed the cockles of my heart. Now I'm going to have lost it, aren't I? I've got to stop doing this. Tweets from memory and then forgetting what they are. He's just got back from holiday and his two year old fell out of bed a lot staying in a caravan. I love the way his last line said, she's fine, by the way. So, yes, there must be a point at which we learn not to fall out of out of bed. But it's hard to pinpoint precisely when. The other question on the board is, why do. Why does having a credit check affect your credit rating? I think I've got that right, but we'll wait for an expert to confirm. 1219 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 we don't take questions about vapor trails and planes because they're often. I don't want to misrepresent the fellow who's got one, but quite often those people are mad. Sammy's in Croydon. Sammy, question or answer? That's a question, mate. Carry on. Okay. So they say that your brain weighs about a kilo to a kilo and a half, which is fairly heavy. Mine's about three. That's why my head's so big. Yeah. They say that you don't feel the weight of it as much because it's kept in, like, a fluid in your skull so it floats to the top. So what I want to know is, I don't understand how that works, because surely you would feel the weight of it on your neck, because the fluid counts as part of that weight as well. That makes sense. Yeah. The question is contingent upon your understanding of biology, which I just politely would question, are you 100% sure you've got that right? Well, I've looked it up, and that's what it says. It says the reason why your brain doesn't weigh so heavily on your neck is because it's suspended in liquid. Yeah. So there's a fluid in your skull, which your brain is actually. Well, I guess what I'm confused by is, if you've looked it up, why didn't you carry on reading until you got the answer to the question you've just asked? Because I'm not a really good radio show. No, that's not good enough. Because I'm questioning the crowns of your question because it seems counterintuitive. If I carry around. Let me think. I've got a pumpkin in a bucket, right? Yeah. And the bucket's got no water in it, and I carry it around, and if I now fill it with water and the pumpkin starts floating, that bucket's going to be heavier than it was before. Exactly. Exactly. Which is why I'm questioning your biological qualifications for telling me, hopefully, if a professor rings or something like that. It doesn't work like that. You can't, because the question at the moment is bogus. Not in a bill and Ted way. Not in a bill and Ted way. What? Last question I called in with. Yeah. And you ridiculed it quite a bit. The person that rang in. Oh, yeah. Got a radio for. Really? Yeah. All right. Then you just. You just clawed it back from the brink. But it doesn't necessarily follow that lightning will strike twice. Sammy, I should do my best for you. Zero. 345-606-0973 if your brain is suspended in brain juice, and that is somehow, according to Professor Sammy, the reason why it doesn't weigh more heavily upon your neck. What's that about? 3456-060-9731 week. Every question on mystery, I'm going to distill down to. What's that about? Eh? Caroline is in Whetstone. Caroline, question or answer a question? Carry on. I was just wondering why men's bikes have the crossbar and women's bikes don't. Aha. Same reason why women used to ride side saddle. Well, I thought it might have something to do with that, but, yeah. Weren't bikes for later invention, though? So weren't women wearing trousers when bikes. Normal bikes? No. That means it was just considered. In sort of post Victorian England, as bicycles became popular, it was still considered utterly. What's the word? Non. You or. You know what I mean? Yeah, well, I mean, it was. It was institutionalized misogyny, actually. Let's call. Call it what it is for what it is. But it. But it was commonplace. And the idea that a woman would. Would ever part her legs in public was. Was not on. So you can't get onto a bicycle with a crossbar without, you know, straddling it. But then why. But why do men bother with the crossbar? It's so much more difficult to get onto a bike with a crossbar. Yes, but it's much tougher. It's a much. It's a better bike. Bike. Oh, is it? Yes. Crossbar is part of its structural integrity. Okay. I have no idea. Well, that's what we're here for. Does that mean that women are riding inferior bikes? Yes. That's terrible, James. It is. It's a national disgrace. Okay, round of applause for me. Women are riding inferior bikes. I think my next band will be called the inferior bikes. It's 1223. And. Oh, Professor Hal is here a bit early. It's going to be the brain question, isn't it? Yes. Good afternoon, James. Yes, it is the brain question. Hang on, mate, let's do a bit of banter. It's what the punters expect. Oh, it's graduation day today. Is it? And you're ringing me. Have you got hundreds and hundreds of bright eyed and bushy tailed young students queuing up for their certificates? But they're waiting. I thought, I've got a go on. Mystery out first. Fair enough, fair enough. So the whole ceremony is on hold? Absolutely. Vice chancellor's sitting there, tapping her heels, looking at her watch, saying, where is he? Where is he? This is the aforementioned Professor Howell, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, here to tell us, to make some sense of Sammy's question about the brain. It's actually quite a nice question and I'd like to explain why. Because he's going to be insufferable. No, no, I'm not. No, not you, Sammy. Oh, okay. The thing about it is, when we're in equilibrium with our surroundings, we don't feel our surroundings. So, for example, are you crushed under the weight of gravity right now? Probably not, because you're used to it. Crushed under the weight of Brexit, mate. That's why I'm crushed under the weight. But carry on. No, mate, I feel your pain. But anyway, the fact of the matter is, if you then go into space and you're weightless in zero g. Yeah. Not quite zero g, but that's not the point. If you're weightless and then you come back down to earth, it's like someone's put a huge weight. That's why astronauts are carried out of aircraft or landing modules, because they suddenly. It's what you're used to. And therefore we're used to having our brain weighing onto our neck, and so we don't really feel it. But the other bit to the question, and this is the lovely bit, is the one bit of your body that doesn't have any nerve cells for itself is your brain. You can cut your brain and not feel it, because all the brain does is detect sensory nerves in the rest of your body, but it hasn't got any of its own. That was the vice chancellor tweeting on the other phone, actually, you might be worried. Where are you? We've got 467 students here waiting for their degrees. Well, I hesitate to quiz you then, but that doesn't make it a good question. I think it's a lovely question because in the answer. But it wasn't true. The premise of the question was false, but sometimes it's not. You can report negative results, still have a positive out of it. Yeah, we've learned something, is what you're saying, but not necessarily what we thought we were going to learn when the question was asked. So it's not like weighing less heavily on your shoulders because it's suspended in a liquid. No, it's nothing to do with a liquid. Absolutely not one jot to do with liquid. It's to do with what you're used to and your equilibrium. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I get that. Yeah, I get that. There's a brilliant cartoon strip in 2000 ad when I was a kid and someone went back in time and to the land of the dinosaurs, and then they died because the air was so clean that it killed them. So that's the same sort of thing. It's what you're used to. I used to love 2008 and Judge Dredd and strontium rage. So ahead of its time as well. There was. I mean, you remember the smokatoriums, or whatever they were called? Everyone who still smoked would have to go and sit in a bubble. You see them now. Airports. Anyway, you've got, you've got a graduation ceremony to attend. Have you got your mortarboard on today? No, I have, I have not. The mortal. I have a floppy, like an ecky thump hat. One of those really floppy ones from the University of London. Oh, like a sort of Hogwarts style outfit? Yes, exactly. It's bright red with yellow trim on the end. In silk, of course, with the big floppy hat, like Bill Oddie and the goodies when he did ecky thump. I'm getting quite aroused. Round of applause for Professor Alex. Alex and Leicester Alec. Question or answer? Question, please. Carry on, mate. 21 gun salute. Yeah. Why do we have it and where did it originate from? Um, when do we use it? Uh, most ceremonies. Uh, so funerals mainly. Um, so army, Navy. Yeah. I don't quite understand the question. So the origins of it. Yeah, it'd just be like fireworks, isn't it? But with cannons, you know, so you're having a bit of a celebration or a funeral or something like that. Heads of state usually, and they want to make a big of a bit of a fuss and they've got some cannons so they fire them. No, not having that. Why is it 21? Why is it not two? Why is it not 510? Why is it 21? Because it's, it's, it's, um, it's a three. It's. I think it, it don't. Volleys go in sevens, so it would be a three volley salute. Oh, still not having it. Seven being the perfect number. Actually. That's three if you listen to de la soul. I'm, I'm, I'm groping around in the dark, so I shall leave it on the board. 21 gun salute. What's that all about? Hey? That's your question, right? Yep. What is it all about? What's it all about? 28 minutes after twelve. Alec. Thank you. Michael's in Byfleet. Michael, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. Carry on. Good. Okay. It's to do with the. Why does your credit score get poorer if you keep applying for loans and credit cards? So it definitely does. Does it? We know that now. It definitely does. The reason for it is, let's say you apply for one credit card today, you get declined and then over the next couple of days you apply for more. What's basically happening is you're proving to everybody else that you've been turned down by a number of people and therefore you're effectively looking more desperate. So that's the information that's being used, which is what I said, I'm going to give you the round of applause. But just, you know, acknowledge that that is what I said you did. And I'll add one other thing to it as well, is called a footprint. And what happened with certain mortgage lenders? Now they can actually do a credit search on you and that footprint actually disappears within 48 hours, that they don't harm your credit score. Is that right? Yeah, that's clever. Qualifications? Independent financial advisor who's been doing mortgages for about 15 years. That'll do nicely. What do the interest rates rise mean to you? I would say, Tim, not an awful lot. I would say, on the pension investment side, yes, it will help. Markets will move forward a little bit. I agree with sort of one of your other experts earlier that I don't think you'll see much in terms of their mortgage lenders won't do an awful lot with their rates. And I also think the banks will take a very long time, probably start passing, you know, sort of savings rates on and what have you. There you go. See, you got your professional hat on and your first ever mystery. A round of applause for Michael, first time caller as well, mate. This is record breaking stuff. The only problem is you set the bar very high for the next time. But I look forward to it. Michael, many thanks indeed. Best of James O'Brien question. Still in need of answers. I've done the crossbar, we've done the bicycle, we've done the credit check. So we've only got that first one left at the moment. Loads of. Loads more room for more questions. Why don't we fall out of bed? And that's general question about the whole of humanity. It's not specific to me, as the questioner seemed to imply when she first rang in. 1235 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you missed the news bulletin, you should know that the bank of England has agreed a rise in interest rates of a quarter of 1% from 0.5 to 0.75. Sheila Fogarty will be talking through what that does and doesn't mean to you shortly after. 02:00 today. No, 01:00. Why do I keep saying 02:00? It's 01:00. I'm only here for another 25 minutes. 01:00 today. Sheesh. Where do they find this guy? Mike's in Cambridge. Mike, question or answer? It's a question. James, carry on. Migrating geese. They fly in a v formation. I want to know who they. How they decide who goes at the front before they set off. There's one of the goose sort of gander said, I know the way, follow me. And they all follow him. Or do. Do they take turns in going get the front? They do take turns, yes. And how do they swap over? Is it like cycling when one flies up in the air? They all. I don't know. I mean, obviously, I don't know. But would anyone know? I mean, we can't talk to geese, can we? It's gone a bit partridge. And is it the goose or the gander that goes at the front? Well, and where does the source go? And if it's a gander, do they get lost more? Yeah, all right. It was going so well then, Mike, you're going for a little bit of cheap 1970s humor at the end. Just let. You let yourself down. You've let me down, but most of all, you've let the radio station down. I'll find out for you. If there is indeed an answer available, we will do our level best to find out. What are the arrangements for geese flying in v's? I'm 99% sure that they take it in turns, but then again, now I've said that out loud, I've got no idea why. Nice one, Mike. Thank you. 1237 is the time. David is in Livingston. David, question or answer? It's an answer and a question, actually. What have you cleared with the producer? Question. Yeah. That's what it is, then. Sorry, we have to be quite strict. No worries. That's okay. Question. Yeah. So at the bottom of all UK bottles, there seems to be, like a diameter embossed on them. Yeah. So I have no idea why. I think. I think it's something to do with figuring out, you know, the volume of the bottle so you're not conned. But it's only the UK. It's really weird. Whereabouts on a bottle is it, then? So it's like, stamped either on the. Either on the edge of the bottom of the bottle or sometimes on the base. And it's not on other. It's not in other european countries. Yeah. It's a UK thing. Like if you go drinking in France or something like that. Yeah. I was over in France in June and, you know, looking at beer bottles over there. None of them have it. And to make matters worse, it's millimeters, which is just so european. You would have thought it was that. Yeah. All right. I mean, I've got. I just have to take your work for it. Yeah, yeah. I'm getting bottles in the. In the studio there. No, I haven't, actually. I'm going to start heads are going to roll. I normally have a half a chilled bottle of wibber of a vodka to hand when I'm in the studio on Thursdays. It's a bit like, you know, Reginald Bosanquet reading the news back in the day or Ken Livingston doing mayor's question with a cheeky scotch to his. To his side. No. All right. I have to take your word for it because I've got no idea. But that, in a way, is sometimes the most fertile grounds for mystery. Why do glass bottles have diameters printed on them? Someone will know and if they're listening, they'll ring in and hopefully they'll tell us. 1238 is a time. Thank you, David. What was the question you were going to answer? You're not allowed to. I'm just curious. 21 gun solution. Oh, no, I forgot that. It's not on my list. So it's a good job I asked you. So the diameter of bottles, there's flying arrangements of geese, the 21 gun salute. What's that all about? And why don't we fall out of bed? Marion is in Bromley. Marion. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. When you're asleep, your consciousness asleep, your unconscious or subconscious processes the day's event. So, in fact, you're sleeping, you're dreaming. The dream are mostly the process of the day in your mind. Either sends you messages, processes and you. So your subconscious knows where you're sleeping. In fact, if you tell yourself before sleep, I want to wake up a particular time. Most of the time, actually, you wake up. You wake up at that time. So the subconscious notice what happens. It's not. It's not a very good phone line. But the question was more about when we learn not to fall out of bed because children do. Yeah, well, your subconscious knows where you sleep when you're very young. Yeah, but when? When does it know? Because it doesn't know when you're very young. As soon as you understand about what the bed is about, what happens when you. When you fall down once or twice, your consciousness experiences it. Oh, okay. So it's less so you. But that would mean you would have to fall out of bed to learn not to fall out of bed. Definitely. And also, it's the same as touching something hot. You wouldn't know. Yeah, but I don't do that when I'm asleep, Marian, do I? When you sleep, you hurt yourself. See, if you hurt yourself, then that experience is there and, you know. Oh, okay, that was painful. So don't fall asleep again. Don't fall down. Yeah, but that's conscious and subconscious. All right. So you can learn stuff in your work while you're. What are your qualifications? I'm a psychotherapist. A psychotherapist? Is that. Does that play into this field? No, I hear it. I just think I'm not. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I just wonder if there might be room for a little more science, maybe. Well, this will find out, but you've got this anyway. This is for you. There we go. Marianne, I apologize. I'm going to fire the assistant producer. 1241 is the time mark is in reading. Mark, question or answer? Question. James? Yep. How do moths know what color they are? Because they always land where they're best camouflaged, but they can't see, their wings. Can see. Is that a good question or a really rubbish question? It's a great question, James. Do they always land where they can't? I mean, that they, they. I think you've got the cart before the horse. Moths evolve to be camouflaged, so they always land in the same places. And the ones that evolved to have camouflaged wings enjoyed more breeding success than the ones that didn't. So eventually they all had camouflaged wings. Yeah, but I've noticed in summer, when they fly into your house, different moths land in different areas where they're always perfectly camouflaged. Are they, though? I mean, I. I'm not clear on the premises of the question on this one, because if they were perfectly camouflaged, we'd never have seen a moth. Well, you can when they move to different areas, so when they're flying around, but when they land. Well, I'll put, I'll put it on the board, but I'm not, I'm not massively optimistic about this one. How do moths know what color they are? That is the question you asked, isn't it? How do they know where to land to camouflage themselves? I mean. I don't. I mean, their eyes, mate, are going to be almost 360 degrees. They probably can see their wings. Can they? They're not like us. They don't, they don't have just little eyes looking ahead. They're moths, mate. Yeah, they've got, they've got. Most insects have much broader peripheral vision than we do. Yeah, but their wings are behind their head and I suppose if they can see, not just behind their head, you know, they flap them a bit, you can. I mean, I'll put it on the board. I'll put it on the board, but I don't think it's quite the humdinger that it could have been. No criticism intended. 1243 is the time. Susan's inborn. Susan, question or answer? It's an answer. Go on to the geese question. Oh, yes. Basically, there's a mathematical formula which apply to how animals behave in a group. Geese, fish, any animals. And it's all to do with survival of the fittest and natural selection. The stronger the animal is and the more times that they've survived in the past, the more likely they are mathematically to be at the front, in the middle, because on the edge, so they don't move around. They have fixed positions, do they? No, they do move around, so that people who are animals that are at the same level of survival will sort of swap between the middle and the edge, because the edge is far more risky and far more likely to be killed by a predator, far more likely to get lost. So the stronger and the fitter you are, the more likely you'll get your turn in the middle and up the front. Yeah. And geese and gander, goose. Males and females. It's going to apply equally across the board. Yeah. I don't actually know about the male and female aspect. Don't worry about it. What are your qualifications? I studied evolutionary animal behavior as part of my degree. Okay. And this would also be the same for fish in shoals, would it? Fish, insects and any. Any animals which go in a swarm, you can predict mathematically. The fittest will be at the front and the middle and the weakest will be at the edges. And there's a constant jostle to get into the middle because it's safer, essentially. Perfect. 1245 is the time. Susan, round of applause. Got some problems with that question about the bottles. I'm being sent lots and lots of pictures of bottles which do have the diameter on them and they're not UK. Maybe you would just buy multi pack beer or something like that on holiday in France. And it's different because Gary's got. That's a nice looking chinon, Gary. Oh, true cheer ball. Stop it. It's partridge. It's taking over the best of James O'Brien. Questions still need answers. Might be a bit more science on the YW fall out of bed. We need the 21 gun salute and we need to clear up this confusion regarding diameter measures on bottles. And then possibly someone's going to ring in and prove that the question, how do moths know what color they are? Was actually genius. And I've made a bit of a herbert of myself again. He said again, steve's in Hounslow. Steve, question or answer. It's a question. James. You all right? I'm all good, mate. How are you? Yeah, not too bad. Nice one, James. My question is the bigger animals in the zoo, the likes of the giraffes and the elephants. Yes. Once they pass, once they die, how does the zoo disposal their body? Incinerators. Oh, is it? Yeah, okay. I'm pretty sure it is. Right. Why do you want to know? What are you planning? I know nothing like that. No, it's just one of those questions that's always in the back of your mind. You're thinking, well, you know, your pet dog passes away, you either cremate them or bury them. But I should have said cremation, not incineration. It's a bit disrespectful, that, isn't it? I'm pretty sure I did. Probably I've got a problem now, though. I just said that and I don't know why I said it, I've just got it in my mind, but I can't prove that it's true. Right. So I'm going to leave it on the board and we'll hopefully hear from. From a zoo person. The zookeeper. That's it, isn't it? Cheers, James. No, you're welcome. Nice one, Steve. Thanks, mate. 1250 is the time, you know, you can done this for one of the girls. You can pay to have a day as a zookeeper. It's. That's cool. We're doing it in Edinburgh because it's about half the price of London. But the. There you go. That's my top tip for the summer holidays. I don't want them getting involved in burning giraffes, though. It's gone partridge again. What's happening to the program today? It's like we're being haunted by Alan Partridge. I did with Margate on Monday. It was a bit close to what Alan Partridge did with the farmers. The way that it got reported. My comments about Margate could have turned the whole of Margate against me, which is very unfair because I really, really like Margate. All I did was explain that for me, having always gone to the seaside in the summer, I struggled to understand why the Brexit votes at seaside towns were so strong. But of course, if you were there all year round and the penny dropped for me this time, you'd realize that we see british seaside towns at their very, very best as visitors. If you live there all year round, there would be a sense of palpable decline in the air for almost all of the year. But it got picked up by one of the local papers in Mulgate and they called me a star, so it wasn't all bad. 1251 is the time John's in Chelmsford. John, question or answer? Yeah, answer. Carry on. John. Yeah. The question about the distance or the millimeter distance on the base of the bottles. Yes. Yeah. That's the distance from the top of the bottle, without its cap, to the surface of the liquid. If the bottle is filled to the capacity it should be. Oh, and is it? And why did our fellow man think it was confined exclusively to british bottles? I have no idea. He's wrong, though. It's to do with average quantity. The bottle itself becomes the measure. Of course it does. What are your qualifications? I'm a trading standards officer. Oh, there you go. And is this applicable to all bottles? Wherever they may hail from? Wherever you get, there's a reversed epsilon, like back to front e on the base of the bottle and where you've got that. And you'll also have the distance in millimeters and a little logo that says where the bottle was actually made. Where does the regulation come from? Is it. It's measuring containers. It's Eu. Yeah. So when he was in France checking his beer bottles and not finding it, chances are he drunk too much. Well, the French also use a different method for measuring their measuring container bottles, so he may have been looking somewhere different. Ah, what a lovely answer. I bet you didn't think you'd be putting your traded standard skills to such good use today, did you, John? Not today, no. Round of applause for John. I love that answer. 1253 is the time George is in Elsted. George, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. And so it's to your moth question. How do moths know what color they are? Yes, well, it's kind of slightly tricky answer, but the fact they don't actually know what color they are, they just know what color to land on, because if they didn't land on the right color, they'd be eaten. So there's an evolutionary pressure for them to. That's why. So, yeah, that's what I said, man. Wow. It was a stab in the dark, wasn't it? Yeah. But I was right. Well, yeah, that's my career right there, George. Yeah. What are your qualifications? I degree in zoology. What do they do with the really big animals when they die? What, in zoos? Yeah. Well, obviously zoology is the study of animals, it's not the study of zoos, so I wouldn't know. James O'Brien gets owned by zoology. Caller mate, you're going viral. Round of applause for George. That's made by doubt. It's not this. And also you've got a tone of voice as well, George, that delivered that diss with absolute aplomb. Zoology, obviously, is the study of animals, not the study of zoos. It was the silent. You complete cretin. I think that the. Silence. You complete fool, O'Brien. Lenny is in Croydon. Lenny, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Lenny. Okay, so I think the woman who answered the first question was wrong about why we fall out of bed. Go on, then. You have a go. Yeah, because, you know, we don't need experts. Basically, when you. Your body. When you fall into a deep sleep, your brain goes into an REM state. Yes. Which is rapid eye movement. And this is where, obviously, you start dreaming, but it's also your brain sort of like, paralyzes your body so you don't move around and hurt yourself. So that's why you don't fall out of bed. Yeah. I mean, I don't know when you tuned in, but the question was more about when do we learn not to, because kids do fall out of bed. So that whole. That rather charming brain paralysis theory that you just floated would have to have an expiry date at around the age of two and a half. Yeah, I didn't think of that. That's all right, mate. I mean, next time, come on and have a crack at it, but don't be so confident that the other person's got it wrong. Well, you know, it's all right. I just suggested that zoology meant the study of zoos. Implicitly, mate. Happens to us all. 1255 is the time. Tom's in Croydon. Tom, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Carry on, Tom. It's to do with the animals at the zoo. Question it was. I'm a London firefighter. Yes. We got called to a barn alive, and sadly, a horse died in there. While we were waiting for the fire investigation team, the chap came down to take the horse away and it is incinerated. He said, we do it for different. For, obviously, farms and for zoos, and we go and we pick up the deceased animal and then we dispose of it by incineration. Fair enough. I mean, it's hard to think of what else they could do with it, really, unless they fed it to some of the other animals in the zoo. Do you know what? I did think that, because that's why I had asked him. He kind of brushed past that. Great minds, Tom. Great minds, mate. There you go. Why can't you. Why can't you feed the giraffes to the lions? Well, I think it was a bit like the sort of league of gentlemen thing there, wasn't it? That's why I didn't want to answer it. You know, the butcher. Also, you don't want the lions getting a taste for giraffe mate. Could cause all sorts of problems at the safari park. 1256. Round of applause for tomorrow. Thanks for all the work you do as well, Tom. Michael is in Tyneside. Michael, question or answer? Good morning. And James, you've been on already today. I know, I'm being greedy. No, you can. You just got. Literally. You just got the producer fired. No, don't laugh. She's on a final warning. She's on a final warning. That's twice the same person twice a day. We don't even allow the same person on twice in a week. In this program, we find that if you give out the phone number regularly, then you get lots of calls from new people. Well, you can help me answer. I will then weave. Which answer have you got? Who's taking responsibility for this, by the way? 21 gun salute. Oh, go on, then. Basically, it's originated with. Also with your accent. With your accent. If I'm being Alan Partridge today, you can be the bloke in the petrol station. That's the one. Go on, then. 21 gun salute. It originates with guns debreaching were harmless. Oh, yes. As a naval ship would enter a foreign harbor, it would fire its guns to daybreak, the fort would fire its guns to deb reach and the ship would enter the harbor. It was later developed into a dignitary salute. And you will bang on the money when you said it's the lucky numbers three and the biblical seven. Yes. 21. The salute at sea is seven online because there's more ammunition. The times it by three and it's a 21 gun salute. What are your qualifications, Michael? British shipbuilder. That'll do nicely, mate. Yeah, that's worked on Portsmouth, Devonports built the original illustrious, not royal son, you. A round of applause. And actually, on this occasion, I'm glad that you broke the only rule that the producers have to obey when working on this program, which is never let the same person on in a week. Did you ring from a different number, you cheeky beggar? Yes, I did. Had a way man would be why I can't get a mobile signal sitting on my bloody settee. Well, that'll do. You were. So you weren't being cheeky. You just, you just got lucky and, and you get a round of applause as well. Is it me or did that sound a little bit more frantic than usual? That round of applause? Whoo. Almost for a lie down. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. You have been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.