Why heart shapes don't really look like hearts

Three minutes after twelve is the time. And heed the man when he says it's mystery r because it is. If you don't know the phone number, I will remind you of it. I will only say the number when there are phone lines free. It's the busiest hour by some distance, even. Even by our standards, which are a little bit bonkers at the moment, but mystery hour really does go nuts. The only thing I would remind you of is this. Between now and about. It's four after twelve between now and about ten past, a lot of people ring in who have to be politely encouraged to ring out again because the questions are a little bit rubbish or they're repetitious or just so don't be put off. There are phone lines free now and there will be phone lines free again in about six minutes time, but try and grab an early one if you think you've got a good question. If you've no idea what I'm talking about, well, stay there. I'll tell you. This is the radio equivalent of one of those newspaper features where the readers write in with a question, why do you do this? Where do we do that? Why do we do this, where do we do that? And the answer comes weeks later. Someone will write in with the answer, what's the origin of that? James, why do we do this? Why do we do that? What's this with a when? Wherefore? Any question, think of your own interrogative pronoun and then stick it in front of a question. Whatever the question is, as long as it's not boring or repetitious, we'll do it. And someone else then rings in with the answer. It's that simple. I don't know why I bother explaining it everywhere. We should just suck it and see. Two guarantees. You will know more by 01:00 than you do now. That's an absolute guarantee. If it doesn't come true, I'll give you the money myself. The point is, of course, it might not be information that you're grateful for or in any way appreciate, and it might not be knowledge you can remember at 01:10 but by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. I also try to deliver at least one laugh out loud moment in the course of mystery hour, but I rely upon the callers for that most of the time. It usually works. Last week was particularly good, particularly cheerful, and goodness knows we all need cheering up at the minute, don't we? That's pretty much it, isn't it? I keep trying every week and keep forgetting to try and launch a sort of signed order on Twitter. So for people who follow the podcast rather than the live program, you can. If you hashtag mystery hour and send me a question in the week, I'll put one a week on. But then every week I forget. One week I won't. Well, I promise that's how these things happen from little acorns. One week I will actually launch it and it will then be part of the furniture forevermore. But until that week comes, I can't really predict with any certainty when it will be. Is that it? Zero. 3456-060-9736 minutes after twelve should we just kick off? I haven't forgotten anything. Axel, any thoughts? No. All clear. Caroline, we ready? We're good to go. Rosie, affectionately known by some callers. Is the other one. Is that Caroline or is it the other one? Okay, yeah, we're good to go. Let's go. Johnny's in Ipswich. Johnny, question or answer? Question, please. James. Bring it on, Johnny. Why is it more dangerous for adults to get chicken pox? Oh, yeah, it's shingles, isn't it, when an adult gets it or. I don't know. Yeah, I think it's something to do with shingles. But it's the same virus, presumably. So why is it more dangerous for adults? Why? Why do you ask? Are you in a bit of bother at the moment or just curious? No, I thought my daughter had it, but it turns out she had something else. Okay, so why is it more dangerous for adults to have? I like that question, actually. I thought it's one of those things we all know it's always much worse. You want to try and have it when you're a child. Don't you have chicken pox parties? Imagine that you do. You want to try and have it as a child. Because if you get it as an adult, it's so much worse. Why? Zero. 345-606-0973 Rebecca is in Southampton. Question or answer, Rebecca. It's a question. Go on. Why do pigeons bob their head? Why do pigeons bob their heads? Yeah. Who put you through? I don't know. It's unbelievable. Why don't. Why wouldn't they bob there? I don't understand the question. It's the way their bodies are made, you know. Why do your nostrils flare? I mean, isn't it just physiognomy or are you thinking there might be an evolutionary purpose to it? I don't know. I haven't got a clue. I was just on my break at work. And this is lurching from bad to worse. Some people spend weeks trying to get through to mystery with a question that they need to solve before they can complete their PhD thesis. And you've gone out for a crafty smoke, seen a pigeon bobbing along and thought, I'll ring in, I'll use up a phone line, I'll get on. That's ridiculous. Why do pigeons bob their head? All right, it's on the board. If it's got a clever answer, I shall issue an apology. Okay, good. You're welcome. Take care. 1207. Why do pigeons bob their heads? Oliver's in Macclesfield. Oliver, question or answer? Question, please. James Oliver. Okay. I've looked on the website to check if you've been asked this before. I don't think you have. Good man. You don't have to do that. But I appreciate people who take the effort. You can go to top of the class. Actually, Rebecca's right at the bottom. Go on. They say that genius has an infinite capacity of taking pains. That's what I did. Buckingham palace, the Houses of Parliament, Whitehall with all the government buildings and the UK Supreme Court, they're all in the city of Westminster. Yes. Why isn't Westminster our official capital city? Why is it London when none of those buildings are in London? Westminster's in London. It's not, isn't it? Separate city. Getting lessons from a Macclesfield resident on my own town. Well, you don't even know what town you're in. That's very true, mate. I don't. I'm in Westminster at the moment. You're not in London then. You're in Greater London, the metropolitan county. But you're not in the City of London. The City of London is a square mile. No, I know that and I was just trying to think the reason why. But the City of London isn't the capital. Greater London is the capital. No, that's a county. The capital. The official capital city of the UK is London. Yeah. And no, none of those buildings are in London. They're all in the City of Westminster. So you think the official capital of the UK is the City of London? This is fascinating. Wouldn't it be incredible if no one had noticed before? Well, that's what I'm saying. This could be a moment of epic historical significance. For thousands of years, we've been worshiping at the wrong altar. It's been hiding in plain sight all this time. That's what I'm saying. I mean, I just sort of. Not somewhat clumsily presume that Westminster is in London and you're adamant that it isn't. If it was, why would they call it the city of Westminster? Exactly. It's a separate city. So why isn't Westminster the capital city of. Well, what's London, then? London? Well, there's a city of London, which is the square mile, and then there's a county called Greater London, which has only been around since, I think, the seventies, which is basically a metropolitan county. It's not a city. Metropolitan elite. Oh, exactly. Yeah, well, you know all about that, wouldn't you, eh, mate? I wrote the book, mate. Don't you forget it. However, I can now demonstrate my northern credentials by asking you if you've popped into a rigi Bianchi lately to buy any furniture. That is very impressive. Macclesfield knowledge. Thank you very much indeed. And if you are in there, then there's a. There's a. One of the Bianchi family called Nick is an old mate of mine. So see if you can get a special discount on your next sofa. Absolutely try. That's way too expensive even for the discount. For me, though. I'm more of a nike. Thank you, Oliver. I love that. I don't know quite what the question is. Why isn't Westminster the capital? Or why is London the capital? What is London? Man alive, this is existential. My head's fried. Paul's in Harrow. Paul, question or answer? Question, James. Oh, no, this is the. I've just seen what you're going to ask. This is the definition of a question that should never get on mystery hour. I'm sorry. They did put me through. Right, if we remember. No, no, no, no. You can't ring in and ask, if we evolve from apes, why do apes still exist? If you mean that's just stupid, but why do they still exist then? If we, through history, we're meant to evolve from apes, why are they still around? We have a shared ancestor. Okay, put it on the board for me. Let me see if. No, no. In fact, I'm going to ban you forever. I've never had. That's a question. That's the definition of daft, that question. He also has a sort of role in christian fundamentalism. Am I the only person working today? Is everyone else on holiday? Trevor is in St. James. Trevor, question or answer? Question. James. And I got to say, a staunch listener for many years. Yeah, you're just jumping on the bandwagon now. Now we're number one. Everyone's claiming that they've been listening for years. Where were you when I needed you, you normally. You normally get callers that turn and they say, james, I don't normally agree with you, but I'm not going to start with that sentence. No. All right. Okay. Right. Question or answer? Question. Why is it when, just like the bullet you just gave just now, the euro exchange rate was 117? Yeah. Whenever I go to my bank or to my post office, at about 111. Why is it such a big difference from what you're saying on your news agenda? News agenda? Everything's an agenda. It's just the news, mate. It's not a news agenda. Why is it different? Because my bank wants to charge me 111, but on the news, you hear it's 117. And I'm thinking, do I buy euros now? Because I'm going Portugal in about ten weeks. Yeah. This Brexit decision comes in and they may sort of send us down this rabbit hole, do I buy euros now or do I wait until she's done it and then it drops even less? There's a lot. There's a lot of questions that. The short answer, the short answer to the original question, I think, is just profit, isn't it? Well, how can profit for who? Profit for the people that are exchanging your money? Well, I mean, they have to make a. They have to make a margin on it, otherwise they're not going to keep all the foreign currencies in the safe. They're not going to bother having the systems in play after. It's like the cash points that charge you one pound 50 to take your own money out. So you're saying I go in and buy the. Buy my euros at 111 in the bank, and then they take my. My pound, I bought the 111 and then they go and plug it on for 100. 17:00 a.m.. I. Saying that. No, I don't know, that's too complicated. I'm just saying that. Stop laughing at me when I don't understand why. I'm just saying that the reason why there's a disparity between the official exchange rate and the one that you get when you go in to change money is because the person that's changing the money for you gets to keep a bit. Well, just like what I just said, then. Does that mean that because I am spending a pound for €1.11, they then take that pan abuse and then go and flog it for more? Yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely what you said. What you said. I'm going to take a round of applause for this one. All right, but if I'm wrong, I'll give it back. Rachel is in Waterlooville in Hampshire. Rachel, question or answer? Hey, Mister Obi Wan Kenobi. Quite enough of that, thank you very much. What would you like to say? Well, I would like to know my dog, Woody. Steve has a bit of a Star wars being here already every morning. Do you ever hear my rap? Did you ever hear my rap? No. Because I thought you were referring to it. You weren't, were you? I did a rap once. I did a grind track, and it contained the line something, something. I'm the ding ding dongy, the one. Kenobi, the reason I'm calling you that is because I do listen to a lot. I do often think you are our only hope. You're very kind. Everyone. Everyone's a fan. Now. Soon as you get over the line, soon as you get the biggest show in town on the whole of commercial radio in the whole of London, everybody claims they've been here since the beginning. Yeah, right. Save it for the judge. What's your question? My question is, okay, I've got a lovely doggy woody, and every morning I let her out to do a wee. She races to the bottom of the garden barking like mad. And if I didn't call her in by saying sausage, she would stay there barking all day. Yes. Do dogs get sore throats? If I was shouting at my neighbor all day, I would have a really sore throat, which is my dog's getting a bit yappy. Is there anything you can do about it? Yeah, you shout sausage and they come straight back in. No, it doesn't work with her. I don't think they've got a throat like yours. Really? Yeah. Vocals, but they got vocal. Can a dog get a sore throat? Well, there's two answers. So you mean can it. Can a dog get a little horse? No. You're putting words in my mouth. Or can a dog. I imagine a dog can get a virus where their throat hurts. No, that's. No. I wonder if it's good if I'd get a sore throat if I shouted at you all day, which I'd have no reason to do, I could show other people in the world opening the american side of the world all day. But I can't shout all day. I'd get a sore throat. So are you asking whether a dog can lose its voice? No. Does it get a sore throat? Well, how are you gonna know? Dogs can't talk. Maybe it is. Does it get croaky? No, but they don't. No. Well, okay, can it? Well, I think you should have asked whether or not a dog can lose its voice, lose its bark. Okay, mister Obi Wan Kenobi, can a dog lose its bark and get a horse. Get a little horse. Okay. And do you know what else I've done as well? I got so distracted by all the kindness that everyone's showering upon me that I've lost all the other questions that have already been asked. What was it? Pigeon. There was nodding pigeon. Chicken, pork. Right. Axel's kept a note. We're all right. Axel saved the day. Nodding pigeons. Now the back of cards, aren't we? We shall find out. I'm toying with the idea of digging out my white label to actually prove that I did record. Was it grime, Axel, or was it drum and bass? It was drum and bass, wasn't it? Yeah, I've got a drum and bass white label. Yeah, man, it's 1216. This mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 21 minutes after twelve questions that need answers in. We forgot to do it during the travel news. I was too busy digging out that drum and bass track that I made from a few years ago. If you don't believe me, I've just tweeted it from my twitter account. The real deal. Must be in a strange mood to drag that one up from the archives. Why do pigeons bob their heads? Why is Westminster not the capital of the city of Westminster? Given that that's where all the big things are, like Buckingham palace and the rest. Why do pigeons bob their heads? Do dogs ever lose their voices or get sore throats? And a couple of others as well. That I will remember as time passes. Oh, celebrity Claxon. Celebrity Claxon. We don't have a celebrity Claxon, so I'd have to do it myself. Russell Grant is on the line. Russell, what can I do for you? Question or answer? Hello, James. Hello, Russell. I was absolutely intrigued by the gentleman from Cheshire. Yes, because I had a very, very good book. And it's still a very good book, because I know that the government use it as a point of reference for counties. Yes, because it was presented to Brandon Lewis, the MP for Great Yarmouth, who was then working with Eric Pickles in communities. Oh, yes, and the book is called the real counties of Britain. Because you are. And you are a Middlesex. That's right. Passion, whatever the word is. You're passionate about Middlesex. I'm passionate about where I was born. Because you see, in 1963, the Greater London act created this act that the county of Middlesex will continue to exist. But Middlesex County Council will be abolished. That's right, yes. And the nub of it is that there are two different types of counties. In fact, there are more, but I won't blind everyone with science. But basically, where the Supreme Court is now, that is actually the old Middlesex Guild hall. So if you look up at the front of the Supreme Court, you will see the old Middlesex county council coat of arms. So, in fact, Westminster was actually the capital of the Middlesex County Council. And your caller was absolutely right. The City of London is just the City of London. And so that is going to give you the capital of this country. But you see, local government has been so messed up by loads of governments that if you go to Berkshire, for instance, there is no Berkshire County Council anymore. But there is a county of Berkshire because the county of Berkshire is administered by six unitary authorities. And very interesting, interestingly enough, when we had all of this, uh, about Surrey county council. Oh, yes, we're going to hold this referendum, topical as well. This is incredible. Well, the Surrey County Council is different to the county of Surrey. So, for instance, the ancient area of Spelthorne, which was the name of an old Middlesex hundred, is actually in the county of Middlesex, but it is administered by Surrey County Council. All right, I'm going to have to stop you now, otherwise, I sense we'll be here until next week. Well, that's it. That's basically. But the short answer is that, well, no, you lost me at Spellthorn. What's the short answer? The short answer is that if you're in Westminster now, you are sitting in the historic county of Middlesex. Right, so, I mean, it's just about the changing of attributions over the generations. Then it's about the changing of the local government, because local government only came into being in 1889 and before that, there were 1300 years of historic counties that were divided into poor law, unions and everything else. So, to put it bluntly, you're sitting in the historic county of Middlesex, but you're in unitary authority of the city of Westminster. City of Westminster. And the notion of London being the capital is actually more emotional than factual. You're absolutely right, because, you see, parliament could change boundaries any time they like. You could suddenly find that one not in, perhaps not so long in the future, London as an administrative area could stretch out to the m 25. Watch this space. How's things, Russell? Are you well? Haven't spoken for a while. I'm really, really good, thanks, James. Always a joy to listen to you and watch you on you tonight. I'll stop it now. All right then. I'm going to go now then. Hang on. Round of applause for Russell Grant. God bless. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Malkie is in golders green. Malky, question or answer? Question. I was watching a program the other day and they were talking about the tradition of smoking fish. You know, you've got salmon, so we're getting a bit animal ii. I've got pigeons, dogs and fish now. Yeah, this is food. All right. Okay. Yeah. Anyway, and so salmon becomes smoke, smoke. Salmon had it. Why does herring become kipper? Oh, we know this. I don't. No, hang on, why is a smoked herring called a kipper? Not called a smoked herring? Yeah, why did it become kipper? There's a reason, isn't there? Kipper shaped like a slipper? Yeah. Okay. Well, yeah, all right. It's not the best question ever, is it? I'm just a little surprised. I think the quality has really gone down this week after a couple of vintage weeks putting through. Well, no, it's not your fault. You didn't put yourself through. No, truth. Why is a smoked herring called a kipper but the others aren't? Yeah, don't change their names. Gravad lacks. No, that's not smoked, is it? Not still smoked salmon? I mean, it's still smoked salmon. It's just a form of smoked salmon. But every other fish smoked stays the same. Herring. Doesn't know. You're right. Okay, I'll see what I can do. Thank you. No, you're very welcome. Why? Why does a herring become a kipper? All other smoked fish still, whatever it was before it got smoked, I think. And. Oh, here you go. I was about to say, we've run out of. I forgot what some of the questions were. Sarah's about to answer one of the ones that had dropped off my list, so I won't remind you what it is. I'll let her. Sarah is in Welling, garden city. Question or answer, Sarah? I could actually answer two of your. No, you're only allowed to answer one. No one likes to show off. It's about shingles. Oh, yeah. After having chickenpox, we all carry the herpes zoosta virus. And usually if you're unwell, the reason why it's worse when you get older is because it attacks the nerve endings. It can make you blind. And why doesn't it do that to children? Because it's actually the start of the virus. If they get it really seriously, it can do that, but when you're older, it's much more dangerous. But why. And I've known others. Why is it more dangerous when you're older? Because it's attacking your nerve endings. Yeah, but why doesn't it attack children's nerve endings? Because children are younger. But that's. That's the worst answer I've ever heard. No, no, children are. Because children are younger. The question is, why do younger people. They're still growing. So it doesn't attack their nerve endings. Because they're still growing. Yeah. You just made that up. No, I didn't. Did you totally just know. I know. I did congratulate you. I was right. Now, I've had enough of that now, frankly. Ego's out of control. It's time people start being rude to me. It's very true. I mean, I've had it and it is the mobile. So it doesn't attack. No, I know that. I know. I know it hurts. My mum had it as well. It's a miserable time. Shingles. But. But your answer, your definitive attempt, is to say the reason why it doesn't attack children's nerve endings is because children are still growing. Still growing. And also, it's their first, you know. No, you're only allowed one answer because they said, what are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? Bit of a medical buff and. Medical buff, my fat foot. You ain't. You ain't got none. Oh, well, I'm disabled, so I have to be a medical buff. But that doesn't mean that you understand the origins of shingles and chicken. But you might be right. But I need some proof that you're right. Why would the still growing nerve endings not be attacked? It's the first time they get it, so they've got to build up the immunity to it. No, I'm not giving you a round of applause. I feel bad now, but you're not having one. What about half of one, then? Come on, Jack. You're sounding a bit desperate, sir. I'm not going to lie to you. I'm not desperate at all. You just ask for half a round of applause in front of. Actually, I haven't counted yet. Hundreds and hundreds. Millions of people. I know. I did hear the results. Give her a little. Give her a quick snatch of applause. All right, bye. Thank you. 12:30 Simon Conway's here now with the headlines. LB 1233 is the time. Why do pigeons bob their heads? That was a rubbish question from Southampton. It was rubbish when it was asked. It's still rubbish now. The only thing that might redeem it is a clever answer. Why do pigeons bob their heads, dogs throats. Do dogs go, it's not. It's like a vet hour, this chicken pox. That sounds like an animal disease. Well, I'm not giving a round of applause for that answer that we just got. Why is chickenpox so dangerous for adults and not for children? Do dogs ever lose their voices? Stroke gets sore throats. Why do pigeons bob their heads when they walk? Why are smoked herring called kippers when all other smoked fish keep their original name? Emma is in orsit in Essex. Emma, question or answer? I've got an answer. Bring it up. Right. Chicken pox. When an adult gets chicken pox, they have to get a larger dose of the virus and also they'll normally only get it if their immune system suppressed. So when a child gets it, they don't have to have such a large dose, but for an adult to get it, they have to be ill. Why? This is just what my doctor told me when my little boy got it, he was eight and got him really bad. My little boy, that was two that got it, didn't get it as bad. And the doctor said, the older you are, the worse it is because you get. You have to have a larger dose of the virus for it to affect you as you get older because your immune system is built up. Yeah, that makes sense. So it's. So it is just worse. It's just a worse disease in an adult than it is in a child. Yeah. You have to get a bigger dose of it. But normally, adults, their immune systems are suppressed for them to catch the virus, so then when they do get. So they're already a bit run down and low and shingles is associated with stress and stuff like that sometimes, isn't it? Yep. And my husband's paranoid because he's never had it. He's never had chickenpox? No. So when the children get it, he gets really worried. But the doctor said not to worry unless you've got flu or something like that. Adults generally won't get chickenpox, which is also part of the answer. It's like doubling down on illness. So if you get it as an adult, then the chances are you're already ill and that this is therefore even more dangerous because it is quite a strong virus. I love that. And the qualifications. I already know your doctor told you. Exactly. Round of applause for Emma. I'm going to give you the other half as well, of that one that we very foolishly gave away before the news. Give the other half to emma used to say that in the pub. I can't have the other half in there. Professor Martin is a man of park. Professor Martin is a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Middlesex. Russell Grant. Oh, man. It's like the planets are aligning today. Question or answer, Professor Martin? It's an answer. Bring it on. It's about the pigeonhead bobbing. Really? Yeah. Oh, you surprised me. Why do pigeons bob their heads when they walk oddly? It's a problem we get in robotics because you're trying to make a robot able to see a scene without seeing blurred images. So what you do is you have a series of still images, like you have in the cinema or the tv, and that's what the pigeon is trying to do. Because it only has a small brain but has a relatively long neck, it's trying to keep its eyes still as it moves forwards, so that the. It's. And then eventually, of course, its head can't go back far enough, so it has to bob the head forward, and then its body is moving forward and it's keeping the head stationary, rather relative to the scene by moving its head back relative to its body. Do all birds do it? Chickens do it as well. Do any birds not bob their heads? Ooh. That I can't say, but I know lots of birds do it. Yes. And that's why. Yep, yep. It's trying to make this scene not be blurred by movement, but keep its head still so it sees a series of still pictures. Oh, you live and learn. Qualifications? It's very, very useful in robotics and we've been studying it. A vision in robots. Just to know. Everybody knows your job. Tell them your job. Professor. Qualifications? Professor of robotics, Middlesex University. Boom. I bet you've never made a drum and bass record, have you? No. No. You see, 1237 is the time. Emma is in Alfredton. Hello, Emma. Question or answer? Hi, James, it's Christian. Yes. I was just wondering what the origin of the heart shape is when it's not shaped like an actual heart. Well, that's nice. Isn't it nice? And Valentine. When is Valentine? I haven't forgotten it. Tuesday. Tuesday. Valentine's. Yes. Is it. So you never forget it. You never forget it, because a heart is like just a lump of old gristle and muscle. When you actually see one, where does the idea of the heart shape come from? Is it too. No, I don't know why I'm trying to answer. I've got no idea. It's a lovely question. Thank you very. You're very welcome. Is everything all right? Yeah, not too bad, because I think last time we had a long chat, it was quite an emotional one, wasn't it? Yeah, actually. Yeah. So I'm quite. I'm single this Valentine's Day and it doesn't bother me at all. There you go. That's what I. That's what I was hinting at. That's what I was alluding to. Well, let's see how many cards you get. 1238 is the time. Why? Why the heart shape? Given that an actual heart is nothing like that. David is in chalk Farm. David, question or answer? Answer, James. Yes. The horse dog question. Yes. Actually, before I give you the answer, can I just say very quickly, great to hear. Russell Brand, Russell Grant. Russell Grant. Russell Brand. You miss Russell? That's hilarious. These are my favorite moments on the radio. Just listen to Russell Grant, the historian, astrologer, star of did he win strictly, did he win or did brilliantly? Australia. You thought it was Russell Brand all that time? I thought he sounded a bit peculiar for Russell Brand. It sounds a bit peculiar for Russell Brand, which is why I find it a little bit peculiar. You concluded that it was Russell Brand, also a great friend of the program. Of course, we haven't seen him for a while. Anyway, where were we? Look. Yes, where were we? I think you should stand as new leader. Just shut up, will you, and answer the question. Just stop it. What do you ring in for? Question or answer the answer for the horse doggy question. Yes. The answer is that. No. Barking continuously for the same reason that babies cannot get a hoarse voice from crying continuously. What is the reason? Which is that when dogs bark the same as when babies cry. They cry with their whole bodies, but principally with their diet, from their diaphragm, pushing air from their diaphragm up through their lungs and out through their throat without any stress on the vocal cord muscles. So we're not comparing light with, like in the phone lines coming in and out, actually, which is just as well because you might embarrass yourself again if we keep you on for much longer. What are your qualifications? I don't have a qualifications, but I was when I did my acting training at city lit in Covent. Gone. Great drama school. Yes. With Brian Carter, who was the head of drama there. Yes. When he was, he was instructing us about performing nightly at theater night after night and keeping the stress off your vocal cords. The reason why the actors were able to do it was because they had to be trained to speak from their diaphragm in order to remove the stress from the. So a bark comes from the diaphragm, in the same way that a baby's cry does, rather than force coming from a constricted throat, which would lead to hoarseness and soreness. Round of applause for David. That was beautifully done. Nicely played. Are you working at the moment? No. Like all actors I've ever met. It's 1241 almost. Ian is in air in Scotland. Ian, question or. Oh, no. Is this a bring him back? Bring back David. I think we've got a stewards inquiry. Have we, Ian? Definitely. Oh, no. Go on, then. While I was working as a vet rep. A vet rep? Yep. Selling drugs into vets. That's quite an admission. I've been a drug pusher for 35 years, thank you very much. It's a train spotting. Jake, you sound a little hoarse yourself when you were put. Why can't dogs do dogs get sore throats? Right, we put three dogs into kennels for three days. Yes. The golden cocker had lost his voice by the first night. Yes. Whereby the kennel owners took him into the house when we got back, we ended up putting them on Benell and parsing for a week to get the voice back. Really? It just got a genuinely sore throat. But that was not from barking. That was like a bike. It was from barking, yeah. Oh, David. In short, farm. Can I have that round of applause back? No, I want it back. No, he's a vet rep, mate. You're an actor. I already put it in my bank account. I don't care. I give it back. Thank you. And I give it to Ian. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen. Right, there you go. 1242 is the time. Taylor's been in touch and my other half, Rebecca, is upset that you didn't apologize about calling her pigeon question rubbish, as it turned out, to have a great answer. You're right. Okay, Rebecca, still listening. Hang on, let me try again. Sorry. AJ's in Glasgow. AJ, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer to the exchange rate question that the gentleman asked. You sound. You sound. If you don't mind me saying so, you sound a little bit surprised to find yourself on the radio, AJ. I mean, I'm a long time listener, but I'm sort of. I might be a bit nervous. I'm first here. It's only me. What is the answer to the exchange rate question? Because I thought I'd done it. No, I mean, profit is only one of the most secondary things on it. First is what is normally called bid ask spreads. Yes. So if you look on the like, if you go to bloomberg.com, which is available everywhere, and you check a web. Check an exchange rate for GBPusd or something like that. Yes. You would find it going on two, four digits, right? 1.2556. Yes. So when. Normally, when interbank, when you're sitting on a banking and you're quoting to other banks and you're quoting prices, you're quoting the fourth digit? Yes. So you're going up to the fourth digit? Yes. You're doing it in real time and primarily because you're doing it in figures which are 10 million. But when it goes down to retail and you're doing it with retailers and individual amounts of 100 pounds or 200 pounds or 1000 pounds, and they're only going to get flushed out at the end of the day, they have to be careful that they quote a rate which doesn't, you know, at the end of the day, move too much around. You put me in quite an awkward position now because I still think I'm right and yet you sound a lot more knowledgeable than I am. The bank must make money on the deal now the bank makes. So, like, if you look at M and S rates on GBPSD, they would quote something like 1.211.37. Yeah. Now, but the actual rate is 1.25. So why are they quoting it 14, you know, $0.12 higher on the upside or $0.11 on the upside, but only $0.04 lower on the other side? That is because. That is because bid ask spreads and they're saying, qualifications. I used to be a trader in the city for a very long time before I went to the other side and started advising corporates behind me. Are you very rich? No. No. Because what I'm about to give you is a prize that money cannot buy. AJ. Thank you. It's 1245. Nice one this week. Nice and funny, which is probably just as well. What are we still looking for? Why? Your heart shape. I hope we get that right. Where does that Valentine's heart shape come from? I've had some rather fruity answers. I hope they turn out to be right. And the kipper question, why do smoked herrings get a special name whereas other fish don't? Is there anything else we missed? Anything else off the list? I don't know. We'll find out if you ring in with the answer. I've got phone lines free. Zero. 345-606-0973 I had one myself this week. I forgot what it was again. James is in Fulham. James, question or answer? Hi, James. It's question please carry on. You know, when you hear in the media or the news people saying that a video or picture has gone viral? I'm passingly familiar with the concept, James. Yes, well, I've heard you said on this rehab before. Yes. What's the measure of when something's gone viral? How many views or shares or hits does it have to have? There isn't something to. So who determines when something goes viral? PR department or the cocky radio presenter? Seriously? I mean, look, if it's twelve and you claim to have gone viral, you're going to look a bit silly. If it's 12,000, it's peanuts. In the great scheme of things. I think we hit 3 million again with one of ours last week. But that would sound viable. We're just making it up as we go along, James. It's the same with all new technologies, new language. There's no official mark for it at all. Well, that sounds a bit flaky. No, it's true. No one goes viral more than I do. And that's the God's honest truth. There's no point at which they phone up and say, it's gone viral. Adrian upstairs just decides he calls it viral, says this clip went viral. Adrian is the answer to your question. Adrian. That can't be exclusive to LBC. He also curates the mystery hour archive, so it's time he got a mention on air. Adrian decides what's gone viral. Right, and that's just on LBC. But what about YouTube or Twitter or Facebook? Well, then it's a bit. What would the word. Let me try and think of a comparison for you that would be helpful. Rather than just me spluttering, it would be a bit like, what does popular mean? So there's no measure? No, it's like. Think of it as a synonym for popular. It's gone popular. If I upload a video, I can say it's gone viral if it's got 100 hits. But you can. But people might laugh at you, but you're not going to get sued or done for trades descriptions. I think it began with viral marketing. I think it was when the Internet was in its infancy and people realized that if they could get people, if they could get the punters to do what traditionally the adverts did. You see what I mean? So to pass it on, rather than just looking at a billboard, it was called viral marketing. Like the Internet equivalent of word of mouth. Right. That's where the word first came from, but now it literally just means popular. This clip's gone popular. Well, okay. Are you happy with that? Ask me what my qualifications are. I mark your qualifications, mate. I am viral every week. Well, so you say what you mean. So I said. You do say that your. Your clips go viral. You've not been reading the media coverage, mate. I don't make this stuff up, you know. Well, you put some. Sometimes they'll show a video and they don't say, it's gone viral. They won't be mine, they won't be my videos. Maybe someone else's. So there's no. There's no formal call? No. The best thing I can do. I'm not going to get any better than just saying. It just means popular. Well, okay, I'm sorry, mate. I mean, it's the truth. Well, okay. Do you want to ask me what I want to know? Yes. Why do you want to know? Well, can I have a shameless plug for a charity? Of course you can. Yes. Okay. So we released a charity record for a campaign called Knowyourlemons.com for worldwide breast cancer. Okay. And it was a picture that went in the news viral last week of lemons. Yes. And so we released a single called Lemonade by Beth McCarthy. By who? Get the plug. Get the proper plug out there. By Beth McCarthy. Yes, Beth McCarthy. And all the proceeds are going to the. To the charity. And we just wondered why that picture was classified as going viral. How many. How many. How many clicks or favorites or retweets did it get? Well, on her picture, I think at the time, in a very short space of time, it was about 50 odd thousand. Yeah. It was classified as, I think, a week ago. Two weeks ago, it was the most viewed picture online in the world. Really? Yeah, apparently so. Wicked. And it's called know your lemons. Know your lemons and a very good cause. And I get a round of applause now, thank you very much. But there is no. I don't believe there is any. I mean, you can claim anything's gone viral. Ian is in Westcott. Ian, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Bring it on, Ian. It's the Kipper question. Oh, yes, the Kipper question. The kipper question. The kipper question. That's the one. Yes. Originally, a male salmon during the spawning season was called a kipper. Really? Yep. And the reason it was called what? Basically because of the kipper, of the name given to the salmon. But they think that the first sort of way it was cooked was split down the middle, head off down the middle, and flattened out like what they call a butterfly. And hung up to be smoked so that there's a kipper in the smoke. If you look at a kipper now, it's cooked exactly the same way, or smoked exactly the same way, which then becomes a kipper, which is a cold smoked herring. You with me? Yeah, I think I am, yeah. Yeah. You follow him? You following my plot? I am, yes. And that's where the name Kipper came from, as in the kipper for the herring. Are you 100% sure of this? Definitely. On this. James, also. Yeah. What are your qualifications? Can I just give you a couple more bits as well? Yeah, go on, then. Fill your boots. Stay the same name. Yeah. Well, the arbo Smokey, I was about to say, are both smoky, which is a haddock. It is a hot, smoked haddock. It is very delicious. And then you go back to the herrings again. You've got a bloater. Yeah. Which is a whole cold smoked herring. And then you go to a buckling, which is a whole hot smoked herring. Qualifications? Ian, fishmonger for 35 years. Where are you based? Down in Kent. Are you still. You still in business? Not at the moment, no. I'm in between jobs at the moment. Oh, okay. Well, if anyone's looking for a fishmonger, Ian knows his onions. Yeah. I don't know why that was funny. 35 years. And are you looking for what? You having to look around at the moment. I had a word with Rex. You know Rex? I do. Rex Goldsmith over in Chelsea Green? Yeah, just up the road from me. Oh, does he? Yeah, he'll be listening, you realize. Really good news. Him and Andrea. Do you know Andreas next door? No. No. Use. The next time you go sim, pop in and see Andreas, he's got a round of applause for Ian. That was a beautiful answer. Thank you very much. No, thank you. Daniel's in Bracknell. Question or answer? Daniel James got an answer for you. Bring it on. It's the heart question. Yes. Something I saw came up on Facebook the other day. I was just asked, where does the shape of the heart come from? Stitched together. They've obviously cartoonized it to make it look a little less grizzly, though. That's. It's two watts stitched together. Two regular hearts. You put them together, stitch them in the middle, you get that heart rate. You're joking, aren't you? They had a picture of it. It wasn't a bit of a grizzly looking picture, but they. That's what sounds disgusting. Sounds disgusting. The traditional valentine heart shape is a rough approximation of what two real hearts would look like if someone stitched them together. Yeah, well, obviously, I thought it was. I thought it was supposed to look like a pair of buttocks. Am I looking at it? Well, it does look like a pair of buttocks, doesn't it? Although quite what that's got to do with Valentine's Day is beyond me. Yeah. Are you expecting a round of applause for this? You? I'm sorry, are you expecting a round of applause for this? Answer. Nice. Yeah. What do we reckon, Axel? It's not. It's not gonna happen, mate. There's no way that. There's nothing a. There's nothing romantic about two hearts being torn out of a cadaver and stitched together in a butchery sort of sense. It's the two hearts. They've come together, they've been bound together. Maybe stitched was the wrong word. Wait there, Paul's. Paul's on the line from Guilford. Paul, what have you got? Yeah, sorry about that. I read a book called Medieval Arms and Armor of Europe and hearts and diamonds and clubs and everything else used to be on armor and clothing. Yes, and it signifies it was actually the other way around. So the humps of the heart were actually underneath and it's supposed to signify the lady's bottom and waist. Daniel, it was all about the buttocks. It was about the buttocks. It was buttocks. Round of applause. Paul, number seven. Oh, well played. No one likes to show off. Although on a scale of one to ten, I think I'm at roughly eleven today for sure. Showing off. My apologies for that. I shall wind my neck back in tomorrow, I promise. And Daniel, nothing for you this week, but don't be downhearted. It was all about the buttocks. That's it from me. From more buttocks tomorrow. From ten on LBC, the next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty.