Why can't you get blackcurrants in America?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is a time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we launch now our weekly adventure, our weekly journey into the unknown. Although, come to think of it, every hour could be mystery hour at the moment, couldn't it? Certainly, with regard to politics, these questions that admit a myriad of answers continue to be posed. We'll return to them tomorrow from ten. But for now, it's just a bit of fun. If you are familiar with those newspaper and magazine features, the Q and A's, the notes and queries, the ones where a reader writes in and says, why do we do this? What's the origin of that? When you see this, what does it mean? Where does that come from? Who? Why? What, where? When? What happened? What resulted? All of those things. And then you wait a few weeks and someone else writes in with an answer. This is like the 21st century, immediate, instant gratification version of that. You ring in with a question and by 01:00 someone else would have rung in with the answer zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Do I need any more? A couple of rules. Don't be boring. Although obviously boring, people never really realize how boring they are. Brexit. And don't be repetetitive, which is my job to look out for if you are going to be repetetitive. It involves me remembering that the question you want to ask has been asked before, because Rosie and Beth, who are on the phones today, have only been here ten minutes and, frankly, can't be expected to remember every question that's ever occurred on the board before. As for Jacob, who's on the buttons, I think he's been here for five minutes. So the notion of him being able to say, no, we definitely did that one three years ago, is zilch. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK, have a look at the database, which is quite a diverting experience in and of itself, but also affords you an opportunity to see whether the question that's occurred to you. What, did someone tweet me earlier about brushing your teeth with hot water? I replied, we've done that, but I can't remember the answer. What's the rule when I can't remember the answer? I can't remember if you are supremely qualified to answer the question that you bring in to answer. In other words, if it's a question about space travel and you are Buzz Aldrin, you may receive the highest accolade available anywhere in the world on the radio, a ray Lee ota. Otherwise you'll get a round of applause which is very, very valuable, but not quite as valuable as a ray Liotta. Is that it? Is there anything else? Who, why, what, where, when have I done that? Whither, wherefore have I gone through all my interrogative pronouns and thrown in even the occasional whence at the end? Have I done that yet? Well, I have now. And two guarantees. You will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. It may not be information that you find any useful in the rest of your life, and it may not be information you can remember by 01:15 but you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. And you should have a laugh out loud moment as well. Although obviously comedy is in the ear of the beholder, just as dullness is seven minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. You won't hear me say that again until I've got phone lines free. And we'll start with Will and clap. And will. Question or answer? Hello? Answer. Hey, answer. Go on. Then. It's for the question last week on women's clothing and where the divers came from. This is because I've got a new producer. She's trying to mix things up a bit. Take me by surprise. I've spent years saying question or answer to the first caller as a sort of fairly foolish exercise in misdirection. And now here you are with an actual answer. I remember that question. I was disappointed that it didn't get an answer. Where does the sizing of women's dresses come from? Okay, so sizing came into the commercial realm, I guess, in the early 19th century when uniforming, uniform clothing was necessary for the military during the napoleonic era. Oh, yes. And then this. It kind of caught on, basically. So men sizing came with chest size, as it still is in some. Yes, but that's inches. So I can wrap a tape around my chest and it is 42 inches. So it's easy to work out how that works. Exactly. And it is easy for men's. So women. So that's where uniform clothing sizes came from. Or they started so pre made clothing. Off the peg, as it were. Yes, exactly. Off the peg. And then this got caught on and on and on. And then in the late 19th century and early 20th centuries, I know in America, the american government commissioned studies based on women volunteers who come and allow themselves to be measured in various ways. And then they were basically put into categories of chest size, hip size, etcetera. However, the reason why women sizing is so awful all the time is that these original studies were done on a certain profile of women. So women that would come and volunteer wasn't really representative of the population as a whole, especially in America with a large black population with a different body shape from white people. Yes. Okay. I think I understand. I can't feel the clouds clearing at this point. I'm just looking for a simple explanation of why women's dresses go four, 6810, twelve. Those numbers have literally no meaning. They were just put on to these categories. So you categorized. Or certain sizes were put into these categories and then retailers use them. This is awkward. We've never done this before. This is very awkward. I don't think this is a good enough answer. Will, you just said nobody knows. Nobody knows. I mean, we've broken. Who did it? Who came up with the 24, 68? Who do we appreciate? Who came up with that? The american government. The american government came up with the dress sizes now used by Dorothy Perkins. Don't be daft. Did they rid. Really? Really. When? When? Late in the fifties. In the fifties. In the fifties. So before that you couldn't be a size six. You didn't know what size you were before the fifties? No, before that. Then you'd have sizes based on everything? On everything. Waist and hip and more measurement. Okay. Qualifications. This is crucial. We'll take your time. What are your qualifications? History degree. And history addresses the study of history of economics. And I don't think I'm going to get capitalism. History of capitalism. Do me a favor. You're talking about frocks. I don't know if I can give you this, mate. I don't think this is the answer. It's more of a complicated answer. You always make it worse and you start digging a deeper. I think it's complicated. It's not. It's bit hard for you to understand, James, because you're a bit thick. That's basically what you're saying now. Women's dress sizes were invented by the american government because uniforms. No, that's dumbing down. Of what? I'm giving you a two. Two for that, pal. All right. Okay, hang on. I'll go take a vote. Hands up if you. If you think that's good enough. And don't just stick your hand up because you put him through with an answer because you thought it'd be really hilarious. No, put your hand down. Anyone think that really deserves a round of applause. It's three one against will. Sorry, mate, but thanks for playing. Paul's in Newark. Paul, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I was wondering where the term part and parcel originated from. Yeah, we haven't had that before. It's something my late father used to use. You know, if I used to ring him and say, I've had a rubbish day at work, I've been stuck in traffic, I'm absolutely shattered, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, he'd say, look, son, it's just part and parcel. Part and parcel of being alive, really? Is the abbreviated version that part and parcel? Part and parcel? This could be, I'm warning you now, an opportunity for Wayne in Basildon, who read the Brewers Dictionary of Phrase and fable cover to cover, three years ago in the hope of securing many, many, many mystery hour. Rounds of applause. This could be opening the door to him. Paul, are you sure you want to do that? Go on, then. All right, then. What is the origin of Parton Parcel? I love that. Thank you, Paul. That's it. Now for origins. Okay, only one a week on origins of phrases. Dave is in Lewisham. Dave, question or answer? Hello. That's a question. Carry on. Yeah, the term spam in computers. Yeah. Where does it come from? Computers aren't that old, so, I mean, it must be, you know, we must have some idea of where it came from. It. Is it an anagram? Is it a letter? Spam mean anything? Or is it because spam used to be a cheap cut of meat and that's why it was rubbish? I don't know. I just wondered. You're gonna just stay here, shall I, while you run through all the possible answers until an alarm goes off and it turns out that you've got the right one? They were just the two answers that I. You know. So then, maybe in my mind, you know. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, I'm trying to pause in the hope of some penny dropping, but I feel I should know that. But we don't. Is it anything to do with the luncheon meat, with the tinned meat? Or is it something else entirely? Automated mail. Oh. Oh, automated mail. I thought it might be the letter. So what does sp stand for? Hang on. Self promulgating automated mail. There you go. Round of applause for your. I just made it. What do you mean? My assistant there. It's me, mate. It's just me. It's. Do not look at the old man behind the curtain. I haven't got any assistant, but I wonder if it is an acronym rather than a reference to the luncheon meet. We'll find out, won't we? And did he look it up on his computer? No one's looked anything up, Dave. This is how my brain works because it's. It's not even the right answer, you prune. At least I don't think it is. If it is the right answer. This is going to be like Rosewell. This is going to be like the mother of all conspiracy theories. Where does the word spam come from in the context of unwanted or unsolicited computer communications? Good man. 1214. Sam is. Sam, not spam. Sam is in Liverpool. Sam. Question or answer? I have a question, please, James, carry on. Well, it's been a topic a lot on your conversation about Brexit difficulties in Britain. I'm a bit tired of it, so I'd like to start my own country and I'd like to know how. Well, first of all, Grimsby gets an exemption because the fishing industry there for people just tuning in and begging government not to make them abide by whatever rules come in after Brexit. So Grimsby gets an exemption and we move to Grimsby. Okay, well, I'll ally with Grimsby then. You could ally. They tried where? The old studio was in west London, very near Grenfell Tower. There was an experiment in the 1970s or late sixties where they tried to declare the independent republic of Frestonia. Have you seen passport to Pimlico? Didn't they do that as well? Isn't that what passport to Pimlico was about? They tried to make an independent. I haven't seen that. I heard about. There's a sort of offshore old rig that someone suffered. It's called Sealand. That's right. That's not land. That's not an actual place. Good point. I wouldn't. I wouldn't recognize it in my. No. I don't know if you can do this without discovering a new territory and sticking a flag in it or having a war, but we'll find out. How do you. How can you start your own country? I like it. 1215 is the time. So what's the origin of spam in the context of, you know, emails and stuff? The phrase part and parcel. I like that. Where does that come from? Does. I might come from butcher that, you know, I wonder. I don't know. And how can you start your own country? There you go. There's plenty to be getting on with. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of them. 1216 is the time history hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 3456-060-9732 minutes after twelve is the time origin of the phrase part and parcel. Why do we call spam spam, as in unwanted emails, etcetera? And how do you start your own country? Zero 345-606-0973 Ben's in Hereford. Ben, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Ben. I actually had two questions I was having an argument about, but one's been answered already. Really? I'm spooky. Go on. What have you cleared with the producer? I watched the film a little while ago. I can't remember the name of the film, but I believe some girls were taken hostages, hostage and unconscious and they were being injected with heroin? Yes. So in my head they would have no idea they would be injected with heroin? Yes. Therefore, limitably. Can you be addicted to heroin if you don't know you've taken it? Yes. Okay. Is that it? No. Well, because it's a chemical dependence. So your body would be. Your body will be crying out for whatever it is that stops your body crying out. You might not know what it's called, but you won't feel better until you've taken more. That's what withdrawal symptoms are. Is that. Is that addiction, though? It's the same addiction as someone who does know that they've taken heroin? Yes. It's an uncontrollable urge to take away a feeling which can only be done by introducing certain chemicals into your system. I'm a smoker. Yeah, I know. I smoke. I know I need a cigarette. Yeah, that's an addiction. Well, okay, what about babies that are born addicted to cigarettes? I knew you were going to say this. Babies aren't born addicted to cigarettes. All right, but they can be born addicted to heroin. But I think that's different because. Well, do they know they've taken heroin? No. Are they addicted to heroin? I knew you would say this, but what? You knew I'd say this? Yeah. Okay, what's going to happen next, then, clever clogs? Well, I think you can give yourself a round of applause. Oh, he's good. 22 minutes after twelve. Ian is in Huntington. Ian, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The origins of spam with regards to unsolicited emails. It's actually from. It's actually from the Monty python use of spam. No way. Spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam. Is it because it goes on endlessly and just when you think you've got rid of it all, it comes back and starts again. Who did it? Who came up with it? Oh, God. It's been doing the rounds of. It's been doing the rounds amongst sort of techies and working on what was. Well, it was even before the Internet was called the Internet, but, you know, emailed techies for years, which is. So it means something. Something that you don't want, but. And which never goes away. Yeah, well, like a lot of people in sort of tech industry, many of us have very little else to do other than watch Doctor who. Monty Python. Yes. And now Star wars. So you tend to get these kind of in jokes and it's just an in joke that stuck. And it definitely comes from Monty Python. Yep. Qualifications are that, you know this. I mean, you can't prove it. This is why I asked for the origin, where it first happened. Yeah. I'd have to go look up whatever the first user. Not allowed to do that. But certainly, I mean, I've been. I've been in the industry since I was, I don't know, since my sort of late teens, early twenties, and I'm in my fifties now and I've run. I've run very large email systems, I've run teams in Internet service providers. It's been my entire career and we've always used that and that's where it comes from. And just. It's a received wisdom that it all comes from Monty Python. Yeah. It's documented. That's where it seems to come from. But certainly that's the way that everyone I've ever worked with in the industry here and in the space. Well, I never. I'll give it to you, but there might be room for a little embellishment. Would you agree? Yes, there's probably some historical context. Yeah, but I think you're right. Everyone else agrees. Everyone who's tweeted in agrees with you. So you can have this good work in. No, thank you. In 24, after twelve, Alex is in Hanwell. Alex, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Well, I sat in the car with the kids and it's always the case. They asked me a question and I gave them the answer I thought was right. But then I started questioning myself. Their question was, if we're an island, is America an island? And I said, no, an island surrounded by water. And they said, well, America is surrounded by water. And I said, yes, that's right, but it's not an island. And then they said, well, what's the difference between an island and a country? And I said, well, a country can be a single country or made up of different, you know, elements or states, but. And then I started talking myself into complete confusion. So when do we class an island as an island? And when is an island not an island? Maybe they are islands and other things. Australia might be a better example than America, because America is a lots and lots of countries. I suppose ultimately the whole continent of America is surrounded by water. But Australia, you look at Australia and it sits alone and proud in the ocean. Tasmania is an island. Yeah, but you wouldn't call Australia an island. No, but maybe technically it is an island, which would not be a very satisfying answer, but would at least solve your confusion. What's the definition of an island? Is what you're asking a body of land surrounded by water. Ergo, technically Australia is an island. Everything is an island, except the countries that aren't surrounded by water. They're not islands, but they're all surrounded by water. No, they're not. You've got landlocked countries. No, there are landlocked countries and they've got to be surrounded on all four sides, which is actually quite a small number of countries, ultimately. So it's a country that's surrounded on. Well, don't ask me, mate, I'm just gibbering out. I'm just thinking out loud. I'm trying to work out what the answer will be. Not in terms of its content, but. No, not in terms of its content, but in terms of what it addresses. So we need a definition of an island, don't we? Which is. I don't know, mate. No man is an island. I know that much. You know, I knew that was coming. Not when we're on air. Right, I'll get this. It's not. I'm not. I'm doing it for the kids. Alex, we'll get you an answer. What's the definition of an island? Like, serious definition of an island. And then we'll know whether or not actually huge continents qualify technically as islands. I suspect they probably do. But me suspecting something, obviously nowhere near good enough to provide an answer. Nice question, Alex. Thank you. 1226 is the time. A couple of phone eyes free as I bid farewell to Alex. You could grab one if you can answer his question. Or the question about how you start a country. You could almost link those two together, couldn't you? It would be easier to start a country in an island than it would be in a landlocked part of the world. Spam, I think we've done. And the origin of the phrase part and parcel zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. 27. Let's go to Simon, who's in Halston. Simon, question or answer a question. James. Carry on. Um, basically, you know where the clocks went back last weekend? Yeah. Okay. Um. Me and my friend, a few friends of mine, we were discussing saying if a baby was born at 01:59 a.m. And its twin was born ten minutes after. Yeah. Would that make the second child older than the first? You remember, you remember when you and your friends were sitting around discussing this? Just out of interest, how stoned were you? No, we were sober. We were sober. We just actually talked. It just came out. I brought up the conversation, actually. Did you? What? How would the one born ten minutes later be older? Because the hour that has been gained has been added to their point of birth. So they're actually born at overwhelming urge for some jelly dipped in peanut butter. Yeah, because a lot of people was mind blowing about it. Yeah, I can imagine. So if you. If two twins born ten minutes apart, but on different sides of the 02:00 a.m. Clock back or clock forward thing, what happens to their recorded ages? Yeah. Oh, man, your hairs are like your antenna is to another dimension. Honestly, I just walk it. I thought was about 03:00 in the morning. Was it last weekend? I think it was about my birthday weekend. Birthday weekend, yeah. That makes sense. But a PlayStation afterwards, was it? No. Yeah. All right. I believe your thousands wouldn't. Well, it's a great question, though. What was it again? What was it again? If a baby was born 01:59 a.m. And the clocks went back and it's twin was born ten minutes later, does that make the second 59? 209. One, two. So theoretically, the third, the second kid was born at 109. Yes. Yeah. Whoa, man. I know. It's gonna stop a lot of people. That is a question. We've got half an hour. What do you reckon? Think we'll get an answer? I mean, it must be. It must be. But theoretically, the child born second is older than the. Whoa. Mind blown. Yeah. Yeah. Let's put it on the board. On the board. It's on the board, Simon. Thank you so much. Let's do it. Zero. 345-606-0973 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three. Four. Five. Six. Zero, six. Zero. Nine. Seven. Three. Twelve. Thirty five is the time. Sorry to interrupt the mystery, our shenanigans, but the word that iranian state television is using, in fact, the word that the iranian government is now using to describe Boris Johnson's intervention in the case of the imprisoned british innocent imprisoned british citizen Nazanin Zagari. Ratcliffe is that he confessed. That's the word he's now using. That's the word the iranian government are now using. So our foreign secretary has confessed that our compatriot Nazanin was lying when she told the truth. And he's still got a job. Crikey. Mistry Ra. Welcome. Light relief from the nuttiness that is currently political reality. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can ask a question or indeed answer a question. And there are lots of questions, but there is a. If you thought that that fella Simon there in Halston, check this one out from Kasia. The bigger question is if the mother went into labour at 01:59 a.m. And then gave birth 20 minutes later when the clocks went back. And it's now 119 am, is it officially recorded the mother gave birth before going into labour? Oh, FaZ is in latent stone. FaZ, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Answer. Bring it on, Faz. Declaring your own country. How do you create. How do you create a country, mate? Right. If it's a piece of land you just found and you go and it's unclaimed yet, then you would go to another country and say, look, I like a member of the United nations. Like a member of the United nations going to claim this country. Can you help me? And they would then propose it. UN would put it forward. All the countries would vote on it and they all voted on it perfectly. You're an independent country. Qualifications? I've worked 30 years on, working on, with the late Lord Eric Avery on independence of Kashmir. Straight up. Straight up. Kashmir was there before no one discovered Kashmir, no discovery. So it's almost bringing it back to independence again. A bit like what's happening in Somaliland at the moment, which is they're trying to establish an independent country, but it hasn't yet been recognized internationally. Yeah, and the United nations is the supranational organization, which everybody subscribes to, is it? So you just need to persuade the United nations and you need to get a United nations member state to represent you to the. To the body. And if they recognize you as an independent state, job done. You're independent. Yeah. But there's two things you have to overcome right up to that stage. When the vote takes place, five countries have a veto. Britain, France, Germany, China, blah, blah, blah. And anyone that can vote and just hang on, blah, blah, blah is not a country, is it? What's the fifth one? America. Yes, America. There we go. God, we're good. What a team. But. But there is a doubt that if it's under uk monarchy, people don't know this. There's two lodgings to get hanged for in this country. One is piracy, the other is prison against a monarchy. I don't think that's true anymore. But it was true until relatively recently. Books. It's not applied? No. I think they might even have removed it under the last government. But anyway, that's a red herring. So if. No, so if it's a british part, you could never declare an independent part of the british empire because the Brits have got a vote of veto at the UN. That's why any one of the five countries got returned. They can just retail it. So you don't. When's the last time that happened, faz? I don't know. You caught me on that one. I'm trying to think. So it's quite hard then. Oh, the only. Yeah, there was a rep, actually, in my chosen field in 1947. All the countries agreed that Keshe would have a referendum if want to be independent. Right. Russia retrograde and stopped him. Straight up. Why sports boy? No, because the Russians are in coalition with the Indians, won't they? That kind. Okay. But India couldn't veto it if it was a majority vote. There's only five founder members. It has tried gaining it, but it's always been turned down to be the permanent member. You're good, mate, you are good. No, it's very kind of. You're good as well, sir. That's very kind of you. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I toyed with the idea of giving you a ray Liotta, but you haven't actually created an independent country yourself. Uh, no, no, no, I haven't got ranked. It's too much washing in the sink to be done. We've all got. It's on all our lists, Faz, it's on all our lists. But, you know, I've got so much to get through these days, especially now. The eldest is at secondary school, she's got guitar lessons. Wow. It's just unbelievable. But we'll, we'll get around to it one day. Never stops, mate. It never stops, does it? One thing after another, like a cross between a cash point and the electricity board. That's how I feel sometimes. I could tell you. Give Faz a round of applause and make sure it's a special one. There we go. Oh, double bubble there, Faz mine. There you go. 1240 is the time Mikey is in. Leads Mikey. Question or answer? Hi, James question. Carry on. I'd like to know if nose burps can smell. How the hell did you get through? Well, you were talking about light releases, so maybe what is a nose burp? And those birds, they like, sometimes I find myself with quite bad breath. Yes. And I could be. I could be around certain people and I don't want to. I don't want to burp in front of them because you could have, like, the residue, a nice lunch in your mouth or something like that. No, this is great. Why did you put him through? Is there some joke here I'm not getting. This is disgusting. Seriously. Seriously. And to sneakily sort of get. Get out of that sort of situation. Oh, so you expel wind through your nose instead of your mouth. Of course it's going to smell. Does it? Of course it does. Where else would the smell go? If it smells when it comes out of one hole, how would it not smell if it came out of the other? Because I think it's through the passage of which the burp goes that makes it smell. And I don't think your nose is a particularly sort of smelly area of the body. And I think. I don't. I'm not sure it does smell, you know, but I don't think you can also smell your own. No, you often. You often wouldn't be able to smell it yourself, because, you know, science. But I don't think it would be fair to say that somehow by it's come out of your throat, you've held it in your mouth, you've pushed it up your nose. Somehow, between moving from your throat to your mouth, all the smell dissipates. Like you've got some smell extractor in the back of your gizzard. Yeah, but I reckon there's an answer. I thought you'd like to have a go. But you. I'll be honest with you, it's none of your business, frankly. It's none of your business what I do. I'm not sure that's a bodily function that I particularly suffer from, to be honest with you. I'm going to leave it on the board. But more out of pity than genuine curiosity, Mikey. Okay. Stare out of pity. 1242 nose, but smell. Honestly, can you get addicted to herring when you haven't, take when you don't know? Yeah, I did that one. How'd you found a country faz? Has nailed that origin of the phrase part and parcel. Come on. Zero 345-606-0973 and the twins things, two twins born on either side of the clocks going back, is the one born second actually older, younger than the one born first. Zero. 345-606-0973 David is in Stroud. David, what would you like to say? James, good afternoon to you. Hello, David. In politics, you have the left wing and the right wing. Yeah. Where did that come from? Why are socialists on the left and the others on the right? Getting a round of applause? I can hear you. It all goes back to the french revolution, mate. So you would have, in the parliament, you'd have the anti monarchists sitting to the left, the third estate, as it were. The Jacobins. Yes. And the other lot, the ones who still had links to the old aristocracy and what have you. And the monarchy sitting to the right. And that is where it all comes from. So on the left, you have all the people whose politics is evidence based, humanitarian and dedicated to improving the lot of every human being. And on the right, you have people like Paul Dacre. Thank you very much. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much, David. Thank you very much. And you could throw in some words like Montagnard and Jacobin if you wanted to sort of put a patina of intellectualism on your answer. Chris is in Aberdeen. Chris, question or answer? Hopefully an answer for you. Carry on. So the question of if the second twin would be ever recorded as being older than first twin. Yes. Obviously, all notes within the hospital maternity ward are handwritten, so they would just make a note to state, you know, this was BST for a standard time, or plus one, minus one, you know, so on like that. Yes. Yeah, yeah. So the birth. And they're probably the only time they'd bother specifying it would be on the day that the clocks went back, because otherwise you'd be able to work it out by looking at the canon. Ah. So one twin would be. It would only be an issue, really, if there was something like a title to be inherited. Yeah. And then who gets it? The one biologically born first gets it. Obviously, it would be the one biologically born, which obviously the notes were there. Obviously, birth certificates used to be handwritten, so a note could be passed on with that. But obviously the digital birth certificates, whether there's a kind of process of putting that onto there, there should be, like, this qualification. I feel like I've stolen this from my mother's 40 years of working as a midwife. Did you ask her. Or did you just pick it up? I love riddles. This riddle has come up before. Has it? I remember talking it through with my parent as a small child, just basically trying to find a way around that I would be right and the riddle would. Would be. Would be correct and not you. You have provided a brilliant answer with a charming backstory. That is special, Chris. That is special and almost cancels out the memory of the nose burping bloke. Oh, definitely a round of applause for Chris. Great work. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312. 49 is the time. Oh, geez. One of those weird days, this 1249. Sometimes I look at the clock and think, oh, ten minutes left, quite tired. I'll have a bit of lunch and I lie down. Sometimes I look at the clock and think, oh, there's only ten minutes left. I've barely drawn breath today. Hardly started on pretty Patel, but it's just one of those days today. So thank you for letting me do the finest and most enjoyable job in the world. Every day I sometimes forget to be properly grateful. Now back to mystery hour. Danny is in Hackney. Danny, question or answer? It's a question. It's quite late for a question. If we run out of ones we haven't answered yet. I've been waiting for a long time. No, I'm not. I'm not having a go at you. I'm just looking at my list. I've only got part and parcel left. Is there anything else left on the list? Oh, islands as well. Anyway, sorry, Danny, mate, what's your question? My question is about english breakfast. Basically, we know obviously, what makes an english breakfast, but why is it english? I mean, there's such a thing as an irish breakfast and a welsh breakfast and a scottish breakfast, which is sort of variations on an english breakfast, but it's because it's what we have for breakfast in other countries, don't they have things like croissant? Okay, I mean, an english breakfast. Sausage, bacon, eggs. I mean, we invented it and I'll kill anyone who says otherwise. Is that. I mean, it's because we invented it. That's why it's called an english bread. Or at least we think we invented it, which is why we've called it in England a full english. That's all it is. Okay, I think I'll give you that slightly dull holiday in the Dominican. And obviously they got like a american sort of style breakfast and there was no baked beans and I was really disappointed there was no baked beans there. Well, Americans invented baked beans. But didn't they? Yes, but they didn't. They didn't have it for breakfast. Did it have those really awful sort. I mean, american bacon is disgusting. Absolutely disgusting. Like, really flimsy, thin stuff. Yeah, yeah, but, yeah, they had, like, pancakes and all that, which was nice, but, yeah, it's not an english breakfast, is. It's a pancake. Yeah. You know, you need to be a purist about this. Black pudding is usually a fairly big indicator that you've got a full English on your hands. You don't. You don't come across black pudding in many other scenarios, do you? No, that's true. It's nice. Nice with a sort of poached egg and a balsamic dressing, but that's probably a little bit rarefied for breakfast. I'm gonna give. I'm gonna give myself a round of applause, Danny, but I'm gonna share it with you, all right, because I'm just nice like that. So hail is in Dubai. So hail, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Dubai. Sorry, I should make more of a fuss. Wow. Carry on. Yeah. International leading the world conversation. Have to change our name to LWC. No, that sounds like a toilet. Carry on. Yeah, the part and parcel. Actually, I knew the answer to that twin one as well. You're right. No, but I'm surprised you didn't get that, because that's how I. Obvious to be. Stgmt distinction. But anyway, the part and parcel is. It's legal terminology that refers to part and parcel of land. It's not parcel as in past the parcel. Ah. So why part and parcel? What does it actually mean? It means, so if you. If you're going to sell and or annex a piece of land to another one. Yeah. You refer to it as part and parcel of the new land. But what does it mean? Why don't they just say the parcel or part? Why does it have to be part and parcel? Which bit is part? Which part is parcel? Somebody 200 years ago decided that. Yeah, but why? No, but not good enough, mate. Why. Why can't they just say lump of land? There must be something that's the part and the bits. That's the parcel. Which parcel is the part and which part is the part? Parcels. To the extent that there's anything that you don't think is part of the parcel, for example. I don't. What sort of lawyer are you? Just one that followed. That follow the letter of the law. The letter of the law. I need more than the letter of the law. I need to know who wrote the letter of the law. What part and parcel. Which bits? The part and which parts. The parcel. But it's the origin of the terminal terminology, not why. Why. Part is. Oh, why did. Why did the lads, like dad, say it's part and parcel? I could be. I'm feeling a little bit robust this morning. I appreciate that, but you're a big man, you can take it. I part and parcel. But then it became a figure. A figure. So you're going to get it part. So it means, like, lock, stock and barrel. Exactly. I'll go on, then. Have a round of applause. I've given you a round of applause now. You could get a ray Liotta just for being in Dubai. Yeah. Come on. Unbelievable. Seriously. All right, ban him. Seriously. He's exercising undue influence. 1254 is the time. What's the definition of an island? How hard can it be? Zero. 345-606-0973 english breakfast. We've done. We've done the twins. That was classy. Part and parcel. Kind of done. Although there might be room for improvement on that. Have we missed anything else out? Just. We got. Oh, the nose. Burps, bloking leads. Yeah. Dominic's in Barnett. Dominic. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right. I was just wondering why we don't charge people with treason anymore. If they commit it, we would, I think. No, I mean, I thought that treason was anything against the crown or her army. Yeah, I might be wrong on that. So would it not be that if, when the two michaels attack Lee Rigby in London, is that not treason? I don't really understand the question that you're asking. It obviously wasn't treason, because treason is still an offence and you still can be prosecuted for it. You can test this by going to the Ministry of Defence, stealing some documents and trying to sell them to the Russians? No, but what I mean is, in a sense of an attack against the Queen or her army, I thought that would be classed as treason. Well, it's an act of war, so then, no, this is. I don't know whether I'm missing the point here or whether you're just being a bit weird. I'm not sure. I'm trying to work out how to explain it a little bit better. I just. I thought, obviously, if it's against the queen or her army, then why, if someone attacks one of our soldiers in our own country? I don't know, mate. This is the short answer. But I don't understand the question either, and I'm not sure you've understood the kind of light hearted nature of mystery hour, although I'll look it up and see if I can find out. Tavis is in Aberdeen. Tavis, question or answer? Answer. James, how's it going? All good, mate. What is it going to be that's good? It's going to be, what is an island, actually, right at the last minute. As an Aussie, I'm uniquely positioned on your show to answer this, I hope. Splendid. Come on. An island. If we go to the rule book on islands and everything to do with oceans, it's called the UN convention on Law of the Sea. Is it uncloth? Yeah, it's like the, the rule guide, the rule book, the Constitution for the oceans, they call it, and as a part of that, I think it's part eight. It's called the regime of islands. It's a really simple answer. We've gone from the ridiculous to the sublime. Come on, man. Yeah, it's good stuff. An island is a naturally formed area of land surrounded by water which is above water at high tide. Well, then Australia is an island. Of course it is. Yeah, of course it is. Part of an island is subjective. But we have a song, a great song in Australia, a wonderful artist called Christina Anu, and a Torres strait, an aboriginal artist, she does a song, our alternative national anthem, called our island Home. Really? Yeah, yeah. There you go. Does that mean the whole of the american continent is an island as well, then? Technically, yes, I guess, if you can separate north and South America with the Panama Canal. So technically it is an island. But it is. It is. It's surrounded continuously by water unclosed. It has mixed sovereignty within it, you see? So a better example would be, say, Borneo. Yes. Which is an island. It has Indonesia, Kalimantan in Borneo, Malaysia, and what's that place called? Brunei. God, you're good. I'm a geographer. I'm looking at a map. I'm cheating. Well, I know. All right, well, I hold that against you. What are you doing in Aberdeen? I've lived here in Scotland for ten years, so I'm an environmental scientist and geographer. Mike, what, are you involved in the oil industry? No, I'm not. I'm a marine biologist. Marine scientist, conservationist. Mate, you're so close to getting a ray Liotta. Have you ever discovered an island? Um, no. I did. We did find one on a map that didn't exist one day. I'm Ray Liotta, and you're listening to James O'Brien. On LBC. If you build it, they will come. Absolute beauty. And the lad who needs to explain to his children what's going on. What's the name of the thing? The United Nations Convention on law of the sea. United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, or UNClOS? Unclos, yeah, yeah. You see, if you'd made this up, which I know you haven't, the clincher would have been the UNCLos. That's. That would have been the bit that made me go, hell, yeah, you could make this stuff up. You couldn't make this stuff up, tavis, great work, mate. Thank you. Zero. 345-606-0973 has someone on the line saying, tavis is wrong, but I've just had such a bromance with him, I don't. I've only got 17 seconds. Shaun's in torquay. Go on, then, quickly. The islands has to be subcontinental. The largest island in the world is Greenland. Haven't you read on cloth? It's. It's on my list, mate. You've got to read uncloth. I think I. You may have slightly different definitions of Ireland, but I'm going with Tavis's. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. You have been listening to James O'Brien on LBC, for which, as ever, I thank you. You're about to listen to Sheila Fogarty, which I heartily recommend. Thank you very much. But you did for doing so as well.