Why don't flakes melt?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. And there we are. Time for a little more, should we say, levity, perhaps, than the news diet currently allows? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you know how this feature works and you have a question that already has an answer, and if you don't know how it works, I suppose I should give you a quick heads up. You almost certainly have bubbling away somewhere in the back of your brain, a question which demands an answer, a question which admits a solution. You know that there is an answer. You could possibly find it if you wanted to, or possibly you've tried and failed. Somebody else listening to this program will know. It could be a very serious question, scientific, based upon all manner of academic achievement. Or it could be a fairly silly inquiry. And the same is true of the answers. You ask a question, the person who answers it might know the answer because they're a highfalutin academic, or they might just know because they saw it on telly last week. It's the who, the why, the what, the where, the when, the wither, and even the occasional wherefore. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need to ask your question. And once you've asked it, we will get an idea. We'll get it on the it's going to be quite fun, actually, considering that I'm in Deptford and the switchboard is in the heart of London's fashionable Leicester Square. But we'll see how it unfolds and cross our fingers and no doubt solve a bunch of mysteries before 01:00 today. If you want to get involved. The number remains the same and I only say the number. And I've got phone lines free and I currently do have two phone lines, three lines, eight and ten, if you're interested in the details, could be yours. If you have a brilliant question and you ring in now. Zero 345-606-0973 I've got a mystery just glancing at the emails and texts and tweets coming into the program. Why is it always racist? People who are so objectionable to the notion that racism exists? Very strange. But anyway, we'll solve that another day. Kavan is in Chelsea. Kavan, question or answer? Question? Carry on. What makes a nut a nut? As opposed to a. As opposed to anything else? I mean, if you look at a cashew and a Brazil nut, they seem to be totally different. What do they have in common? This is a great question. I think I might know the answer. What? What do they have in common? Yeah, exactly. What do a cashew. And I mean, have you ever seen a cashew in the shell? No, I don't know. The only thing they have in common that I've seen is that they all come in that nut bad trailer mix thing. Apart from that, I don't really see any commonality. So you're looking for the. It's a fantastic employment of the word commonality in a conversation about how you identify a nutrition, but that is what you're looking for. What do nuts have in common? Yeah, in a nutshell. Do you know, by any kind, it's something to do. It's something to do with the. Because you plant a nut. You're way too proud of that pun, James. Well, I know. How can you be way too proud of that pun? In a nutshell, that was poetry, emotion. I might go home now. Actually. I think we've peaked. I don't think it's gonna get in a nutshell, Kevin. I'll stop. I'll stop messing around and I'll get you an answer and I'll get a proper answer. Yes. Shells will definitely be part of it. I think the answer in a nutshell might be a nutshell. Thank you, Kevin. Oliver is in West Ham. Oliver, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Oliver. How you doing, James? You're right, yeah, pretty good. Thank you, mate. Fantastic. Fantastic. Yeah. No, just one I've been thinking about for a couple of weeks. My brother in law is from Sicily, so we drink a lot of coffee together and stuff. But why don't you get coffee as a percentage? Like, alcohol is? So you can have like 4% beer, you get 12% wine, 40% spirit. But with a coffee, there's no. There's no percentage. You can't get 90% coffee. Do you mean an actual number? Because you can tell some coffees are stronger than other coffees, aren't they? Yeah, they do a strength. They'll do. Like you can have a one or a two or you can have a high strength or dark and aromatic, intense experience. I don't know if that's coffee. I don't know if that's the caffeine content or the flavor. Yeah, exactly. Does a strong flavored coffee, because I quite like a coffee that you can stand a spoon up in. I like a really strong coffee. But that doesn't necessarily mean it's got more caffeine. One more turkish one. Yeah, well, the greek stuff, even if you have like a double, we can have a double espresso or you can have a double. Unless they have a double vodka. It's still only 40% vodka. Even if you have the double. Yeah. I mean, it might be that the numbers are so small that the percentage of caffeine is so tiny that it. But I like this question. You're on. It's on the list. Why don't. Why don't. Why do we not know how much caffeine there is in coffee, given that there are so many competing types of coffee? And what is the commonality of the nuts family? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. The time now is 1216 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 20 minutes after twelve. Mystery hour is underway. Chiefly nuts and coffee at the moment. What makes a nut a nut? And why don't we know how much caffeine there is in a coffee? I like these questions. Zero 345-606-0973 why did you just tell us you like these questions? Because there's no quality control here at all. I'm sitting in Deptford at the Stephen Lawrence Centre. I don't even know who's back in the studio picking calls, but give them my love if you do get through. Joe's in bath. Joe, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Joe. Right. And it's. Why don't Cadbury's flakes melt? When I said there was no quality control, there was no quality control on the program today. I wasn't expecting it to be proved in quite such a conclusive fashion quite so quickly. They do melt. I've tried putting it in a sonic bowl over a pan of boiling water. Nothing. I've tried the microwave and I've tried. Are you sure that you've got a cabbage flake and not a stick? Fairly sure. I can't accept this question because they do melt. They don't. Honestly. They do. They don't. This is awful because normally when I get really cocky with a caller for having a stupid question, I end up looking stupid about two calls later. But there's on this one. There's no way I'm going to end up looking stupid. It's made of chocolate. Chocolate melts. You're not hanging something on me here. I'm not. I'm not part of some vile joke, some vile practical joke that's got a. Got a slightly pornographic punchline. No, no. I can. If I can tell you brief backstory. If you like? Is it suitable for a family audience? Yeah, I was trying. I was trying to make Rice Krispie cakes and the only chocolate that I had in the. In the cupboard was a four pack of flakes. So sort of a house do you live in that a four pack of flake could rest unmolested in your kitchen cupboard? It wouldn't last 5 seconds in mind. And so I put. I. I put them all on the hob above a pan of boiling water. And whereas any other previous chocolate that I used would melt within minutes, they stayed exactly the same texture and flakiness, basically, they would fall apart. They would fall apart when I rubbed but not melt. So you'd have shavings, you'd have chippings. Flake chippings. But you would have no liquification. No. I don't know what to say. How old were the flakes? Yeah. And I then tried the microwave that didn't work with a different flake or with the chippings from the first failure different flake. I was. I went and bought some more. And nothing doing. No. No. Well, I'm taking you in good faith and I'm genuinely flabbergasted. I really want to know. It's been. I'm going to find out for you. I'm going to. I got a mate who's an ice cream man. I saw him on Sunday at the boat race. Enzo. He's always. He's got flakes coming out of the ears, but I don't know if he's ever tried to melt one. Well, that's maybe why they use them. It could be. No, because that's cold. They wouldn't melt in an ice cream you prune. No, no. But obviously in hot weather, they might have something to do with its properties. Yeah, maybe how they make it. Let's find out. All right. If this ends up in a humiliation or an embarrassment for me, I'm going to buy you from the program. And I don't have that many listeners in Bath, but I don't care. I'll make an exception. Joe. Thank you very much indeed. Why don't. Flakes Mountain zero, 345-606-0973 what makes a nut a nut? Zero 345-606-0973 and caffeine content in coffee. Is that a good idea? And what if it is? Why doesn't it happen? Time now is 23 minutes after twelve. Eddie is in Oldham. Eddie, question or answer? It's a question. Yeah. Wherever you go in the world, it's the celtic faith. Celtic religion. Celtic people. You go to Boston, Stala Bridge or Glasgow, and it's celtic. Why? Yeah. Noun and adjective. Well, I have no idea. So I'm gonna. No, it is you're using as. It's a noun. When you're talking about the Boston Celtics or celtic football club, it's an adjective. When you're talking about the celtic people or the celtic language. Well, I'll take you. Okay. Thank you for finally explaining it to me. I hope that's right. If it isn't, we'll do is we'll do a stewards inquiry. Eddie, I've got a problem. I can't. I'm in. I'm in Deptford at the Stephen Lawrence Centre. And Axel, my studio producer, is in Leicester Square in London. So I've got no way of signaling to him that I now deserve a round of applause. Can you tell him for me? Well. Well, hang on a minute. Oh, that sounded entirely decent, Eddie. Thank you, mate. That's one of the sweetest things that's ever happened to me on the radio. Eddie, are you okay? Toby's in the city. Toby, question or answer? Oh, it's a question, James. Carry on, Toby. Right. I would like to know why it was decided to put the London postal areas where they are. Because they don't always make sense. I'll give you an example. You have Whitechapel with e one. The next up east is my land, which is e two. I think I've got assistant producers answering the phone today who weren't even born when we started doing mystery. We must have done this before. No, she thought so. She thought. I phoned up about it before. But the last time I called LBC, you were in Gospware and your number was 353-8111 I was born then. Steve Allen had just entered his 78th year on the station. At that point in proceedings, I was still in short trousers. Okay, so you're right. There are. There are anomalies in the postcode distributions of London on there. That's right. Because e four is way up north. As far north in the capital, you can get. You know what? I take all that back. I want to know. Even if I've been told before, I've forgotten. I want to know now. Thank you very much, Toby. You take care. Great stuff. And it's nice to have you back on board after a 30 year hiatus. Mark, is it? Mark is in cansy. Darren. Mark, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, James, carry on. So, Christmas Day. That date never changes. But why does Easter has to be on a Sunday. But that's it. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not having that. What do you mean you're not having that? That's all that's on offer. Easter Sunday? How could Easter Sunday not be on a Sunday? No, no, not the Christmas Friday, is it? It's Easter Sunday. No, not the fact that it's on a Sunday. All right, I've got a better answer. I've got a better answer for you then. Corner. Spring equinox. Don't tell the people who get cross about eggs not having Easter written on them. But Easter is actually conveniently slid into a previously pagan festival which depended upon the spring equinox. I can't argue with that. So it's something like the X Sunday after the spring equinox, the third Sunday after or the first Sunday after. I don't have the full details, but that is your answer, mate. Is that a round of applause then? I don't know. Could you tell Axel? Go on. Axel took him a round of applause. Thank you, Mark. Thank you, Axel. Andy's in Hackney. Andy, question or answer? Question. James. How are you, sir? Very well, Andy. What's on your mind? Okay, hear me out. I will. Do pigeons have taste buds? What makes you think they might not? Because, right, I'm standing at a bus stop and there's a little pigeon next to me. He's found a little morsel on the street. Obviously it's a scavenger. Scavenger food. And it's putting away a little piece of whatever it is it's covered in. Obviously it's on the pavement. It's covered in dirt and crud and fag ash and all sorts. And if I put that into my mouth, it wouldn't be very pleasant. So how does it. What if you'd only ever eaten crud and dirt and faggots? What if that was your usual diet? Because you were like an urban pigeon, but human. Okay, but if that's the case, right, I guarantee if you put a discarded cigarette and a piece of bread next to each other, the pigeon will always peck at the bread and not to discard a cigarette. So how does it know? That's some social life you've got going on there. And these are the things I think about. Did you play this with the whole family or is it just a solo pursuit? I dare not. Do pigeons have taste, but it's actually quite good. Well, you've probably answered it yourself, haven't you? If you. If you have done your own experiments with pigeons and cigarette filters, and little morsels of crust. I'm no expert, so I don't know. All right? Well, I don't know. I don't know. I can't imagine there's anyone who knows more about it than you do. I will find out. Do pigeons have taste buds? We need an ornithologist. I'm probably wrong about the Celts. It's already been pointed out to me, so we'll probably have to have a stewards inquiry on that. I'm definitely not wrong about Easter. But it might not be the spring equinox, it might be the lunar calendar or something. But it's all about the druids. And we also need to know why London postcodes are so anomalous. E four, for example, is right up north. Why don't flakes melt? That's according to the caller. I'm not entirely sure that it's true. Caffeine content in coffee. What makes a nut a nut? You are listening to James O'Brien's mystery air. The time is 29 minutes after twelve and Simon Conway is here now with the headline mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1234. Small world, actually. One of the people running the marathon for the Stephen Lawrence charitable Trust. I won't embarrass them by telling you which one. Just. Just told me that they have already bought tickets for my Christopher Hitchens memorial lecturer at the hey on y literary festival later this year. How charming. A lovely opportunity for me to humble brag as well. The time now is 1235. The questions that need answers. The flake question is good. The flake question is good. It's built on a sound premise, so we need to find out why flakes don't melt. We need to know why we can't have caffeine levels on our coffee. What makes a nut a nut? I'm hearing reports that a cashew nut is not actually a nut. Man. The anomaly of postcodes. Very good friend of mine, Nick Revel, the stand up comedian, has just sent me an almost interminable account of why that is. But I fell asleep halfway through, so I'm going to have to wait for someone to ring in and answer that. And we need to know whether pigeons have taste buds. Don't ask me why, but we shall. What was the other one? And we may have a stewards inquiry on why we say celt and celt in different contexts. Malik is in South Woodford. Malik, question or answer? Answer, young man. Carry on. Malik, yeah. The postcodes are basically going alphabetically, James. So e one is not Whitechapel, it's foe. E two is vessel, green. Oh, sorry. E one is algate. Then you've got bowl, Bethnal Green, Chingford. Therefore it's e four. E five becomes Homerton, Hackney. And for some fantastic reason, it's basically going alphabetically, not geographically. Yeah. So central areas ending in one are not alphabetical. So n one, west one, east one and s one. Actually, we don't have an s one. Anyway, the central areas ending in one are not alphabetical. Everything else is. Yes. So, Camden, mw one, Hampstead nw three. Brixton, SW two. Tooting, SW 17. I just slagged off my mate Nick and now I'm reading out his text on the radio. Wimbledon, SW 19. So it's out. It's alphabetical allocations rather than geographical. That's right. Qualifications. Used to be a mini tub controller many moons ago. That'll do. That'll do nicely. Right, I can say it to you, but I can't say it to. To myself. Jenna is in harrow. Jenna, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why do we have ladies in waiting? Why do we have ladies in waiting in? What do you mean? Do you mean, what was their purpose back in the day? What still is their purpose? They're like paid friends for queens and princesses. Hey. And they help you get dressed and stuff like that is. I mean, they're just. They're like, imagine a servant who's also a friend. But they also said non royalty, like wealthy families as well. Who. I can't really hear you, but I'm sitting in Deptford, so I've got no idea whether that's because someone's pressed the wrong button in the studio or whether this is. This is a rubbish line. What did you just say after that bit about royal families? They also serve wealthy families as well. They're not called ladies in waiting. I thought they were. No, they're just called servants. Okay, you got to be a princess or a. Well, actually, that. No, I think. Lady, I think you've got to have a link to the monarch. But do you want the meaning of the words or do you want a description of what they do, the meaning of the words and where. Okay, so, yeah, so I don't know why they're called what. Yeah, all right, I'm gonna. We want to find out why ladies in waiting are called ladies in waiting. That's what we want to find out. Yeah, well, you don't sound convinced. No, not really. No, on victorian. It just kind of baffled me. Well, it's not baffling. Why? Why? Women have ladies in waiting. I'm not going to argue with you about whether it's just royals. I'm sure you could probably find me a duchess or two who had a lady in waiting as well. But they're there as a cross between a friend and a servant. That's a matter of fact. But I don't know why they're called ladies in waiting. Probably because they spend a lot of time waiting for the. For the boss, perhaps? No, maybe. I don't know. Maybe. I'm going to leave the question on the board and hopefully someone who rings in will provide you with more satisfaction than I've been able to. Thank you, James. Thank you, Jenna. Mark's in Cardiff. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Mark. It's regarding the cabbage flake melting. This is an astonishing moment for me. I took the mickey out of that question, frankly, more than I ordinarily would dare to. I was so convinced it was wrong. You're here to tell me it wasn't? No, it's actually true. It's because it's made of dehydrated milk chocolate. Dehydrated milk is used in the chocolate. Yeah. Or dehydrated chocolate. No, it's made of dehydrated milk chocolate. Yes, but it's the milk. What? It's. So it's the right. Carry on. Well, it contains dehydrated milk. Does it contain dehydrated milk, Mark? Yes. And that normal chocolate does not. Normal chocolate is made with a glass and a half. Well, that's right. So when I try to melt my flake, the dehydrated milk molecules will sort of just shrivel and the sugar will start burning. That's right. It goes hard until the sugar burns. It goes harder and harder until the sugar burns. What are your qualifications, Mark? My uncle used to be a chocolate and this came up in conversation. Did it? Yes and no. He left me a book and I just looked in the book. Oh, really? You're not really supposed to look stuff up. So let's pretend the last bit of the conversation didn't happen and we'll just go back to when you were sitting on your uncle's knee and you asked him why flakes don't melt and he explained to you all about the dehydrated milk. Yes. Thank you. Round of applause for Mark, which was a brilliant question and presumably, I don't know whether you have been told this. When you're sitting on your uncle's knee, presumably you couldn't actually get the flakiness without using the dried milk like powder or whatever it is, because you wouldn't. Because it would stick together. I don't know. But anyway, it's true. And now you know why Harry is in Birmingham. Do you know what Jane Austen said about Birmingham, Harry? No, I don't. She said, I have no great hopes from Birmingham. There's something direful in the sound. She wasn't far wrong. Maybe. Question or answer? Is it question, James? Go on. Why is the lint from a dryer always a shade of lilac, regardless of. We're going to get one about white pigeon, white dog poo next. They're letting through all the hardy perennials. Is it always lila key? Mine's a bit. Great. I'm going to actually. Now, we haven't got any cameras on, have we? The cameras on. Promise me. All right. I'm just gonna see if I have any lint in my navel at this moment in time. No, I'm talking about from a dryer. You know, when you clear out after you put stuff in the dryer, it's always a shade of lilac. I don't know about your driver. I got a fair old chunk in my belly button at the moment. Is it light? It's not. What would you say that was, lads? Is that lilac? It's more of a sort of. Got a lilacy tinge to it. It's great. And presumably it's got something to do with, um. With dyes and washability. But are you sure? I mean, do you own a lot of lilac clothes? No, I'm doing washing now and I've just put my whites out the dryer. Cleaned it out? Yeah. Right. Are you sure lilac is the right word? Because I get my colors a bit mixed up. We're definitely saying lilac. What else is lilac? Give me an example of a lilac thing. The flowers. It's kind of a light purple. Yeah, yeah. I just want people who's. People whose flower based vocabulary isn't as big as yours. I want them to be able to join in as well. A paley pinky purple. Yeah, yeah, we'll go with that. And your lint is always that color? Always that kind of shade? Yeah. Not the exact same color, but. No, but there's always a tint comes out. Blue. Yeah. A paley paley purple tinge. And you don't dress exclusively in purple clothes. You're not for example, a roman emperor. No, unfortunately not. She's overrated. There's no. No running water, Harry. Well played. I'll get you an answer to that if it kills me. Alex is in Romford. Question or answer, Alex? Ask question. Carry on. You know, the. Some smells can bring back nostalgic sensations. Like proust. Madelines. Yes. So that's a taste rather than a smell for me. There's a particular brand of floor polish that makes me come very close to losing it, because it's the smell of the floor polish outside my old headmaster's study, which we used to stand outside, waiting to be beaten to within inch of our miserable lives. Well, that's quite on par with what my question is. And some smells bring back horrible fears. One of them is the dentist smell. All dentists seem to smell the same, but I've never know what that smell actually is. You mean the surgery rather than the individuals? Yeah, well, some of them, but, yeah, surgeries, all that all smell the same. And that fear of being a child, being dragged to the dentist by my mother. I was really lucky. I never got. I was never really scared of the dentist. But. But is it not the antiseptic smell? Isn't it the pink stuff that you have a swill with and then spit out? Is it definitive? No, it can't be. It's speculative. Then. If you can leave it on the board, that'd be amazing. Do you know what I've got in front of me at the moment? Is it my mother calling killer? No, nothing like. No, nothing like that. She feels no guilt. I've got. I've got a small lump of belly button fluff and a Cadbury's flake in front of me live on the radio. It's wasted. It's wasted on the radio. I should get you an answer. Why do all dentists surgeries smell the same? We can't say with any confidence that all dentists smell the same because most of us only have ever been able to smell two or three. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, I hope. Oh, no. We've done the flake question. You must be here for the coffee. Have we got time before the news? Oh, get you. Everyone's a producer these days. I don't know. I'll ask the real producer. Have we got time before the news? Yeah, apparently we have, but only because it's. You need any hints for your lecture? Because I'm not unaccustomed to lecturing. It's not actually a lecture. So it's a conversation with Safraz Manzor, the journalist. It's called the Christopher Hitchens Memorial lecture. But I'm not actually giving a lecture. I do lectures every day on the radio. I'm going to have a conversation anyway. You're using up all the time that I've given you. What's going on with the caffeine and the coffee? One of my favorite things is natural products and the caffeine and the alcohol. Caffeine is one of a class of natural products, nicotine, atropine, morphine, etcetera. And we're not comparing apples with apples because alcohol is products of fermentation or brewing. And when it reaches a maximum of 10%, the yeast gets killed by the alcohol. Are you still with me? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. So from that point on, you have to distill something to get it ever more alcoholic and therefore it's in the distillers purview to do that. With caffeine. You can't do that. You can't distill coffee because. So it's just naturally occurring? Yes. So it's more or less the same, varying with small amounts by what coffee beans you're using. But you're stuck. When you have two espressos, it's just two lots of caffeine. When you have more alcohol, it's kind of the same thing, but you don't get the varying amounts of caffeine and the difference between different brands. Perhaps you're having an arabica or a blue mountain or something like that. Arabica and robots are the two types of bean and they vary slightly in the caffeine amount, but they vary so slightly that there'd be no point labeling it. No, it's more or less a constant. Yeah. Qualifications? I'm really delighted to be the. I've got the chair and public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and you drink a lot of coffee. I do, actually. I was just thinking that. Yeah, there you go. Well paid. Professor Howard. It's 1246 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 still talking about bellybutton fluff here. If you are just tuning in, I'm not going to tell you why. I'll just leave you with that very odd thought. You're listening to mystery air. We meet James O'Brien on LBC, where we still need a couple of answers and there might even be room for a question or two. Some that still need answers include why do all dentist surgery smell the same? Why is the lint in your tumble dryer always, always has a purplish or a lilac hue? There must be an answer for that. Do pigeons have taste buds? And what makes a nut a nut? Ben is in Farnham. Ben, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Ben. Okay. Where the bubbles come from when he boiled water. Get a pan of water and you boil it. Where's the air coming from? Because it's not in there to begin with. That's a really good question. That's the kind of question we used to get on mystery out before it all went a little bit kind of low rent and shallow. I mean, that's why Professor Howell is a feature of mystery, because he would usually ring in. He can't now he's used up his token like it white. Where did, where did the bubbles come from? Yeah, because there must be something in them, wasn't there? Well, what is obviously made of hydrogen and oxygen, but. Yeah. But does some of that get translated into gas as opposed to where steam comes off? That's not a gas. I like that. Yeah. Where do the bubbles come from when you boil a pan of water, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need and I've got finalized free. If you can answer any of these. I don't really think we're going to be able to get on if you know some answers. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Don is in yeovil. Don, question or answer? Answer, please. James, carry on. Don the dentist question. Oh, yeah. What does it smell of? It smells of oil, of clothes. Are you sure? Absolutely certain. Being a dentist of 37 summers tells me that the smell is. It's because we use temporary fitting material, which is the mixture of zinc oxide and some young eugenol. And in the eugenol is oil of cloves, and it's an oil, an all pervading smell, which makes every dentist smell the same. The good news is, if you've done the job for 37 years, you don't smell it anymore. Everyone else does. Everybody else does. It's not an unpleasant aroma, it's just a little clinical, a little surgical. It is. And to be honest, we're actually using it less and less now than we ever used to. So come back in ten years, it might not smell of the dentist anymore. You know what you've earned yourself. Don the dentist. Do your mates call you the dontist? You know, Don the dentist is quite a regular thing. I'm also known as Hannibal lecter to some of my less pleasant friends. Give me a round of applause. Axel. Great work tomorrow. Steve is in the. Oh, I've got to apologize, Joe. He's tweeted me, furious. Not really. The flake question was really good. I'm sorry for taking the mickey, Joe. I've already apologized on Twitter. What do you think this is exercising flagellation? And also there was another tweet that came in that said, it's been, I'll find it for you and then I shall tell you before close of play today. Steve is in East Grinstead. Steve, question or answer? I have an answer, James. And it's carry on. Easter Sunday. Well, I kind of did it. You did. You did well. Easter Sunday. Yes, it is after spree equinox, but the reason it changes is because it was set by the council of Nicaea in 325 AD. Of course, yes, there's authority that it will. Well, they were responsible for the Nicene Creed, of course, which is still in very popular use every Sunday. Absolutely, brother. So, yeah, so it's the first Sunday after the first full moon after the spring equinox. Qualifications? Run astronomy group in my town of East Grinstead. You run a what in East Grinstead? An astronomy group in my town. There's a lot of cults in East Grinstead. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Great. You're not one of them. When you say you run an astronomy group, you're not actually a kind of high priest of fiction? No, fact, not fiction. Are you listening to the right program? Round of applause for Steve. Great work. I'd already got that. But I like Steve's style. I like astronomers. Here you go. This is from Adam. It's been 644 days since the referendum. I'm still yet to hear a single genuinely positive reason to leave the European Union. You've been covering this a lot, I gather, and I thought you may know of one, in case I'd missed it. Thanks in advance. Adam, mate, it's mystery, not magic hour. Luigi is in Windsor. Luigi, question or answer? Answer. Hello, how are you? I am pretty good, Luigi, how are you? Very good, very good. What have you got for me? Ladies in waiting. Ladies in waiting? Yeah. The reason is because most of the ladies at the time were single ladies and noble ladies as well. So noble single ladies. You were quite right, actually. They were a friend and a cross between a friend and a servant. The reason is ladies want to go to court to find a suitable husband. So they were waiting for a husband? Exactly. Or a lover. And the name stuck. The name stuck. Even after they got married, they were still called ladies in waiting. Even though some of them are married. Exactly, yes, yes. And some of them were already married and were as ladies in waiting because they were the mistresses of somebody important in the court. Indeed they were. And this is true. I mean, is it called that in other languages? Do we know the spanish court? The French? Yes, yes, yes, yes, indeed. In Spanish as well. What are your qualifications? I like history. I'm a farrier, actually, but I'm a lover of history. That'll do for me. A lover of history. Luigi, great work. Grazie Mille. Luigi, you don't have to laugh. I'm trying to get the European Union back together, mate. Terry's in Croydon. Terry, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Terry, in your own time. So do you want to put your teeth in and start again? All nuts are seeds. Yeah. Not all seeds are nuts. It's the way that the fruit presents the. The item, the nut. If you get a single presentation that's not coming out of a fruit, that's a nut. So the classic one is a hazelnut. Yes. Right. If you've got a pip. So the fruit and the seed are both in the shell. That's it. That's for a seed. No, no, because the seed wouldn't have the fruit in the cell. The food in the cell? In the. In the shell. Well, all nuts have got food in it for. Yeah, that's why they're nuts, not seeds. But seeds will also have some of the food in. In the kernel as well. But they won't be in a shell way. But they won't be in a shell. Well, they are. All right, start again. Brazil nuts are seeds. Are they? They're not nuts. If you ever look at a pod of Brazil nuts. Yeah, they. Seeds, because they. They're presented in that way. They. They loosely called a tree nut, like tree nut and a peanuts called a ground nut. Peanut is a legume. Don't get me started on that. You got a problem with legumes? Well, they're not nut. Fair enough. No, no, it's not. It's like a tomato. This is serious. You think I'm not taking this seriously? Doesn't it? That's pretty. The fruit and the seed together. Yeah, but it's not in a shell. But it's not in a shell. It's not in a shell. Tell. Usually a shell is. Is present, but what I'm saying is a seed can also be in a shell, which is what the Brazil nut is. You're on. Got you. Qualifications? Qualifications. I just like odd facts about food. Really? But nuts in particular, or all foods? No, no. All food. All right. Round of applause for terry, please. All nuts are seeds, but not all seeds are nuts, okay? In the same way that all racists are brexiters, but not all brexiters are racists. Nancy's in staines. Nancy, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Nancy. This is answer. The oxygen bubbles. Where do the bubbles come from when you boil a pan of water? When you boil water? Water is hydrogen and oxygen. If the oxygen crystals when they get hot. Because heat rises. Yeah. So the bubbles coming out of the water are pure oxygen? Yes. Until they reach the air when other molecules mix it. Qualifications? I study science in school. I studied science at school. I barely know what day it is. Are you sure that the bubbles coming out through the water are pure oxygen? Yes, I am sure. I'm gonna give you a round of applause because I like your confidence. Well played, Nancy. If you're yanking my chain, I don't mind. I'm breaking up for a week in a minute, so I'm feeling rather cheerful. PK is in Tottenham. PK, last one to you. Question or answer? Our jerks. It's an answer, please. Which one would you like to answer? PK, you need to turn your radio off, friend. You need to turn your radio. If there's a reason we've blown it. I can't do no. So, do pigeons have taste buds? Yes or no? Yes, please. They do. Round of applause. Problem solved. That's it for me for another day. As I just hinted, I'm not here tomorrow. Magic will be standing in for me. And I'm not here next week either. Quite sure who is standing in for me. Current form is only to go by probably Genghis Khan. I will be back with you a week on Monday. Try not to miss me too much. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you.