Why do you get 7 years of bad luck if you break a mirror?

With James O'Brien three minutes after twelve. Mystery is upon us. Sorry, I'm chuckling. There's nothing worse than people who enjoy their own jokes too much. We must have spotted the David Davis Swiss Tony comparison before, mustn't we? I can't believe that that was Bran spanking. We've certainly not done it with a clip, but that is it. David Davis's entire negotiating process. Practice tactics. Even the bit where he taps his head. Because who are you going to trust? The guy who has got all the papers in front of him or the guy who's got it all up here? Tap, tap. Swiss Dave. Secretary of state for leaving the European Union. Except not anymore, because it got too difficult. So I resigned so I could heckle from the sidelines. Heckling James is like making love to a beautiful woman. I'm gonna have to stop with this now. I'm in that mood, though. I could do this for an hour. Who is Swiss Tony? Is it Charlie Higson? Is Charlie Hickson the actor who plays. Can we see if he'll do it for us? Go on, call in some favors from your showbiz chums. Sorry, I am still here. And it is mystery, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is this. You have a question bubbling away in the back of your brain, a question that might be about very complicated science, or it might be about something really quite banal and or silly. They're both welcome. The only things that we guard against during this astonishingly successful and popular feature are dullness and repetition. Although, frankly, I can't hold you responsible for dullness or repetition anymore. I mean, you will be asked, if you get through to the studio, what your question is, and my colleagues may decide it's too dull to be put through, but sometimes they put through stuff that I think is duller than dishwater. And so whose fault is that? Theirs or yours? Yeah, who knows? Repetition. Similarly, we've been doing this so long now, and my memory is not what it was, we cannot realistically be expected to guard fully against repetition, because I am the only member of staff on mystery Hour who has been here for every mystery hour except once when someone doing my holiday cover had the unbelievable audacity to try to do mystery hour themselves. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Inconceivable. Well done, everybody. Who knows what film that is a reference to. That's it, really. Do I need to do any more burbling or should we just crack on? If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, bring in, provide it. You get a round of applause if your qualifications for answering that question are unbelievably relevant. In other words, if you ring in to answer a question about, oh, I don't know, a vaccine, and you invented the vaccine, you will get what is called a ray liotta or a ray liotta. That is a bespoke anointment from the Hollywood legend Ray Liotta and our adaptation of one of his most famous film lines to accommodate what I consider to be the credo of this program. The point is, of course, if you get your questions right, if I do my job correctly, then I get astonishing calls on the switchboard. Mystery hour, oddly, is not the best example of that, but it is a distillation of the principle. So if you build it, they will come. If I do my job correctly, amazing scenes will unfold on the switchboard. So that is just an example of unbelievably good qualifications for answering the question that you have answered, but don't think they have to be unbelievably good. Probably the most popular qualification on mystery hour over the years has been that I saw it on tv. James and I will want a little bit more detail. Usually a David Attenborough, possibly a Mythbusters, that kind of thing. Equally, Professor Hale down in Brighton, professor of the understanding of science, professor of public understanding of science. He's probably our most anointed mystery Howe contributor. And he is a. Well, as you may have guessed, he's an actual professor. Should we crack on? Are we ready or are we still giggling about Swiss Dave? Both. Deborah's in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why is it that we celebrate wedding anniversaries with items? First paper, then wood, lace, gold, silver, pearl. How did that come about? That's a lovely question. Why did it come about? Is it like a reward? What's coming up, Deborah? Have you got a big one on the horizon? Is that what's focused your mind? No, no, not at all. It's just that I wondered, because of the certificate that you signed when you get married, I thought that would be the reason for paper with presents on your anniversary. Isn't it so? Paper? Yes, it is. It represents something for each year and I just wondered how that came about and why. I like it. I know I do. I mean, I suppose going back to times when you didn't get presents very often, people. But. But again, gold and silk. What's 19? Do you know, I've got 19 coming up. Deborah, do you know, I don't know any of them other than I thought you were just tripping them off. You're tripping them off really, really smoothly, like a sort of David Davis type character. Well, I thought at the beginning bit and the end, or the highest that I knew, but I don't know. The in between bit. Yeah. Where does it come from? That's a lovely question. I like that a lot. Paper, paper. Phone. Name. Diamond is. What's Diamond? 75, 50, golden, silver, who cares? We'll find out. Yeah. Once you get to silver, gold, diamond and all that. They do. They're quite a long way away, aren't they? One of the great, great triumphs of feminism that I look forward to being achieved in the coming years is when it is subverted. And on your diamond anniversary, your wife buys you a diamond, rather than. This is currently the norm. The other way around. Deborah, thank you very much indeed. Where did that come from? It's a really lovely question that if you know the answer, you're not allowed to look anything up. That's the whole point. In case you were confused and you're new to the program, you're not allowed to look anything up. You have to have the knowledge filed away somewhere. Dan is in Hampstead Garden suburb. Question or answer, Dan? Question. Carry on. I was wondering who made the cigarette? What was he thinking? Let's try to light this piece of paper on fire and see if it feels good. Where did the idea even come from? And who was it? Well, the tobacco was being smoked in. When would it be South America? Walter Reilly brought it back to Britain. But in terms of who was the first person to actually light it and smoke it, nobody knows. Do you know what else is a mystery, Dan? What? Who was the first person who saw an udder and thought, hmm, I'm gonna have some. Some of that juicy milk? That's a very good question. Well, over there, it's like, you know, it was probably some person who decided to play around with his animal. But, like, over here, like, was person, like, really thinking so, no, they were already smoking tobacco. So Walter Raleigh was found tobacco. Walter Raleigh found it, but it was already being used by other humans, so it was in, I think, Elizabeth I's reign. So he'd have been essentially looking for gold, but also stumbling across other useful things. So he brought back tobacco and the potato, but he would have. The history won't have recorded. He found tobacco and heard about it, so he started to smoke it, or. Yeah, well, he was on his travels. He was a kind of spy and explorer, and he would be touring around the world and Guyana, places like that, and he found tobacco, which meant that the locals were already smoking it. So he had a go, liked it, brought it back. So that's how it came to Britain. Yes. Is it known where? No, no one knows who. I mean, who was the first person to eat a magic mushroom, mate? Also probably someone who was trying to survive in some forest. Yeah. So someone will was. Someone lit a fire, they threw on some leaves from a nearby plant and they thought, well, these leaves smell a bit different. And then they kind of had a bit of a breathe and thought, hmm, I like that. And I'm going to put some in a little bowl and, like, I'm not going to just do it on the fire. So, you know, it's the same with cannabis, probably. Yeah, I guess. I don't think. I mean, I put it on the board. Who discovered. Who first discovered tobacco or. No, it's not even that, is it? Because you could have discovered it without smoking it. You wouldn't have known it was tobacco. You just stumbled across a tree. So who first smoked. Who first smoked tobacco? That's what you want to know? Yeah. All right. How many years do you have to be married before it's your tobacco anniversary? Neil is in Wednesbury. Neil, question or answer? Question, please carry on. It's about films. They talk about how successful a film do buy. The box office receipts. So it's like half a billion pounds. I'm just wondering where that should get that figure from. Is it the full price of the ticket or a percentage? And as an extra sort of bonus question, I've got like one of these unlimited cards where you pay a certain amount per month and you can watch any film. Oh, you can't have that. No, no, no, no. That's far too complicated. Yeah, well, no, no, no, no. It might be an easy answer. No. So I think they just count, don't they? Yeah, but. Yeah, but that's how much the film makes. And obviously they don't make the full ticket price because the cinema's got to take some money. I know they make most of the money from popcorn, but that's not. That won't be included in the box office take for the launch of a movie. So how did. No, it's a nice question. How do they calculate the box office? I mean, they just know. They just add up all the tickets that have been. So every cinema that's got that film got, been sent. That film will respond with a figure and they just top them all up. I don't think it's a mystery, Neil. No, no. But if you'd come in and ask that question, you wouldn't have got on air, you see, because it's too complicated. I mean, who the hell knows how they do? You go. Where do you go usually? Mary Hill. Is it that you go to, to watch the movies? Birmingham normally go into town, properly into. Yeah, fair enough. Do you remember the futurist on John Bright Street? I do indeed. Saw Howard the duck there, Neil. Yeah, I think I saw the jungle button. Happy days. So you go for people who are confused by elements of this conversation. You've got all you can eat card and so you go to the cinema and you've paid a flat fee and you can watch films an unlimited amount of times and you want to know how that impacts upon the box office take for that film. I imagine that because it's not a legally binding claim, I imagine that they count you as a full price ticket when you're in there, but then the film hasn't made that money and that's why this question's not being allowed. Okay, fair enough. All right, thanks very much. There you go. 1214 is the time Chris is in Ealing. Question or answer? Chris, how you doing? James is a question. Please carry on, mate. Okay. From a gastronomic point of view, why is it whenever you make pancakes, the first one always goes wrong? And that's speaking from somebody that is a chef of 25 years. I'm sorry, pal. I'm a radio presenter of 15 years and my first pancake never goes wrong. Do you know what, you're going to have to tell me what you do that's so special, because I've been doing it for ages in kitchens and it always, always goes wrong. Get your pan proper hot. But you knew that already. Butter or oil? Normally I use a little bit of butter, yeah. So chuck your butter in and put your batter in almost straight away, but then leave it. Okay. I think you start teasing it a little bit prematurely. That's what I do. I start jiggling the pan a little bit. Well, you've got to jiggle it to spread it out properly. But don't worry, because what you do, Chris, I think. Come here a minute. Sit down. All right? Yeah, have a cup of tea. I think you worry it's going to stick. So you start manipulating the edges a bit, don't you? And you start maybe poking the spatula underneath, trying to pick it up a bit, don't you? Yeah. Probably wanting it to be done too quickly on the first one. You see, you've got a bit of a kind of thing going on. You need to wait until it starts bubbling up, until you can actually see the air bubble expanding and lifting the batter, the now coalesced and our cooked batter from the base of the pan. And only. Only, Chris, contemplate tossing when you can see the whole pancake move on a light jiggle of the panhandle. I see. I mean, that's an outstanding answer and I think that could be your next book, as it goes. To be fair, get a book out of a pancake. Yeah, you could have done. I've heard of worse. I'll give you the money myself. I'll take a round of applause in the meantime. But I spent years laboring under your sticky pan pre toss problem and I'm very happy to have solved it for you. Cheers, James. Cheers, Chris. This is LBC 970 312 18 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Negotiating with the European Union is like making love to a beautiful woman. If you've just tuned in, I'm not going to tell you what that was about. I'm going to leave you wondering what the hell has happened to your favorite radio station and indeed your favorite radio presenter. Robert's in Lincoln. Robert, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. And my son is fascinated by the world wars. Yes, absolutely loves football. I was just wondering, with the Christmas truce in 1914 and the football match that took place on Christmas day, wondering if anybody knew the score. What a lovely question. Was it that formally done? Well, I'm not sure there was VAR, but if there was any sort, John Watson was probably commentating. That's a lovely question. And obviously, there's no earthly way I'm going to know the answer, but somebody might did it. I mean, are we even sure it definitely happened? Because it's a beautiful story. I like to believe it happened because the second chapter of it, as I've heard, and I don't know whether this is apocryphal or not, is that the officers hated it because you and, I mean, you know, it's not unlikely, sorry to bring Brexit into everything, but if you actually realize these people aren't our enemy, they're just like us. They're just obeying orders from a different aristocracy who are in this. In the case of the first world War, astonishingly, they're just. They're just prepared to die for a different grandson of Queen Victoria. From the one that we're prepared to die for. So the game of football could have kind of seen some sort of international socialist revolution, but it didn't. It certainly could have. As I say, this is one where I would like my belief to almost take over fact. Yeah. And then we're there. We were trying to avoid Brexit comparisons. Does anyone know what the score was in that magnificent, possibly legendary football match to mark the temporary Christmas truce in the trenches at the beginning of the first World War? David's in Guilford. David, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. The cinema question. Marvelous. How do they. Well, you know the question. How do they work out? Well, do you know, when he asked it, it's not actually as daft a question as you would imagine. It's quite. It's quite interesting. I used to work in cinema. I used to work for the canon cinema chain back in the eighties, and I was an assistant manager for the Odeon chain in the nineties. And what you would do in those days before computers, at the end of every evening, you would phone in to one guy for the Odeon chain. I would phone into one chap in the evening and give him our box office take for the day. For each film. Yes. And he would literally write them down on the bit of paper and he would take all the numbers for all the odeons. And at the end of each week, you top them up and you'd see what your take was. But the thing is, and this is why often popcorn and drinks are so expensive at cinemas, is that anywhere from, well, 70% to 80% of the box office take goes to the films, to the film company, to the producers, to the distributors. Cinema itself really only makes its money on the popcorn, which is why popcorn and confectionery is so pricey, so important they make their money. Why the markup so huge? That's not that. I mean, that's interesting as an aside, but it's not relevant to the original question. The original question is answered by simply just getting the receipts. There aren't that many cinemas that. It's an impossible task to achieve. No. Nowadays, now it's all computer, James. There's no human involvement at all, because you tap in your numbers at the end of the day and it just gets sent off to a central to essential. Do you want to have a crack at Chummo's question about his loyalty card, the card that lets him go to as many films as he want. How would he get totted up during the receipts? That's a really good question or a really bad question, depending on your point of view. Yes. No, it is a good question. Because in those things, again, I'm thinking of the Odin chain. Just because they do their limit listing for 20 quid a month, don't they? So how does that get divvied up between all of them? Don't know the answer to that. Don't need to know. Nobody knows. No. But as a quick aside before you go, for example, the take to the cinema and how little it is to the cinema itself. When Spielberg released et in the eighties, he took 100% of the box office. For the first four weeks, cinemas lived purely off confectionery take, really. And then there's the other thing, of course, about carefully constructed contracts that mean some of the most successful films in history never actually moved into profit. Exactly. Um, round of applause for David. Thanks, mate. Are you still in the business? Are you still in the business? No, I'm not, actually. I left in the mid nineties. I'm now. I'm now self employed. I'm a kids entertainer. Oh, fantastic. Great stuff. Take care. 1223 is the time. Always quite fancied working in a cinema. But then, of course, somebody pointed out that I might have to have had Howard the duck on 80 times in a working week. Alex is in Brentwood. Alex, question or answer? There's a question. Please, James, carry on. Alex, where did the superstition, seven years of bad luck for breaking the mirror, come from? I can't believe we've never done that before. But it doesn't ring any bells at all. That's a lovely one, isn't it? Yes. I only thought of it because I was listening to Stevie Wonder superstition. Yeah. What a tune. I love it. Where does seven years. I'm pretty sure that in some countries you break a mirror on purpose to get rid of bad spirits. I think that's quite an eastern european thing. I could have gone wrong. I could have just imagined that or dreamt it. But that doesn't answer your question. I'm just. I often do this. I don't know if you've noticed, if I have no clue at all about how to answer the question that's been asked. I sometimes throw in some vaguely relevant but utterly useless knowledge, just to sort of paper over the cracks of my own ignorance. Alex, I know, I'm an avid listener. I listen everybody. You're familiar with it? I shall, um. Let's find out. Where did that seven years bad luck for breaking a mirror come from? We've done the pancakes. We've done the box offices. Who first smoked tobacco? Zero. 345-606-0973 I'll be surprised if we can learn that one. And when did the whole thing about marking anniversaries with a. With a special thing, like gold or paper or lace? Well, where did that come from? Why did we do it? When did it begin? Well, just. Why do we. I don't know. Anything you want. Tell me something. Give me some knowledge. Knowledge. Jude's in Tunbridge. Jude. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Do you know where. How do we know where two seas meet? Like what English Channel and the Atlantic would. Yeah. How do you know where they meet? So where is the line between two bodies of water? Yeah, yeah. Why would it be any different from land? Yeah. It's just plotted on a map. Yeah. Who are you asking this question for, Jude? I'm asking for my topography class. So we want to know how. I mean, I think it's just written on a map in the same way that land borders are. But I want to be sure I've understood your question correctly. How do we know where a border is between two seas? Yeah, all right. I presume it's the same as a border between two lands and it's just been written on a map, in the case of the Middle east, by a French and an english diplomat. What's it called? Pico Sykes. Pico. Or have I imagined that? I get confused. 1226 is the time, Jude. Good man. Let's find out for him. How, who, why, where, when, what, where? Whither went? What resulted. Josh. Soho. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Josh says, answer to the truce. The football game. Oh, yeah, go on. And so a game did happen, but it wasn't. No one kept scores from what we could tell. How it was. They just played for fun, but it pretty much was just for fun. And someone just. Well, they started with on the Christmas day, just crossing the boat like that. No man's land. And then they decided just to kind of start chatting. They were cutting each of his air, and then someone just threw a ball on and they just run around, apparently, as far as we could tell. What are your qualifications? So I work in tv and film production, and I worked on the Sainsbury's Christmas ad when they did the truce, and we did some research and a documentary behind it to find out what the true story was. Oh, that's lovely. And you made the documentary as well? As well as the advert, yeah, I worked on the advert. And then I actually made the documentary as well. What was the documentary broadcast? It wasn't broadcast, no, it's on YouTube, I think these days. It was Sainsbury's wanted to show that they'd actually looked at this properly and looked at all the details. I was thinking I was only going to give a radiota to someone who'd actually played in it, but that bar is obviously absurdly high. I'm looking at that. I mean, the advert is quite recent as well. It was only three or four years ago, wasn't it? I think it was, yeah, about three years ago now. I think it was 2000, actually. 2014. It might have been, I think. Yeah. So, yeah, five years ago. And of course, they just played for fun and no one was keeping score. In fact, if they had been keeping score, in many ways, it would have undermined the beauty of the whole episode, wouldn't it? Especially if they. Especially if one side had retreated to their trench. Especially if the Germans won on penalties. Retreat to their trenches. That doesn't really speak of the outbreak of peace between ordinary men who temporarily recognize the brotherhood of man, does it? It's the opposite of football. If occasion give him a raise. He was also right, James, about the kind of captains and majors back at home really didn't like it. They actually changed the people on the front line. So, because you cannot get people to do really, really dangerous things like risk their life for a different grandson of Queen Victoria, unless you can successfully persuade them that foreigners are, for unspecified reasons, the enemy, I imagine people will be talking about the Donald Tusk comments later on LBC, but in the meantime, Josh, fill your boots. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Have you ever worked with Ray? I haven't known, fortunately. I'll put a word in for you, Josh. But you get around. You get around as well. Take care of it. That was lovely. Really lovely. And it was a beautiful advert that Christmas adverts. I get to an age where I can't even be cynical about them anymore. Almost look forward to the John Lewis or a real peach of a Sainsbury's one. Coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Still need the anniversaries and the tobacco questions answered and the seven years for breaking a mirror. Plus the border between two bodies of water. How do we know where it is? Well, and I'm thinking about that. The mulch, the English Channel and the Atlantic. So there must be a waterborne. But, I mean, look, it's international. Waters are fathom's sake fish. Lisa Aziz has the headlines. Theresa May is back in Brussels. Meeting 970 312 34 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where I'm not talking about Brexit, which is quite nice. We're doing mystery hour, although if you're tuning in a little late in the day, an expectation of some Brexit related pearls. I don't know anymore. I've got no clue what's going to happen next. Absolutely anything is possible. Still, my underpinning prediction is that you're looking at no deal or no Brexit. But then, of course, that depends on Jeremy Corbyn, who has now abandoned his demand that any deal that's done involves the exact same benefits as EU membership, which, of course, David Davis claimed not long ago was perfectly possible. Oh, what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive. Andy's in Raynham. Andy, question or answer? I have a question, please, mate. Go on. Andy. If I was on a desert island, would I be able to catch a cold? You mean a germ? A germ from another human being, yeah. We always seem to catch colds off people coughing or door handles or money and stuff like that. If it was uninhabited. Ah, well, you can. Can you catch a cold off other mammals? You probably can, can't you? Birds. Birds, mate. No, you can't have that. Come off it, Andy, mate, it's. It's a radio show. Not who's the first person to catch a cold? It was a bloke called. It was a bloke called. Ooh, in about 400 BC. 6000 BC, the bug. What goes about, someone's got to be the first person to get here? Andy, we're covering a lot of ground here, mate. Here's the deal. The question was, can I catch a cold on a desert island? And the answer is. Yeah, you could catch bird flu. Oh, lovely. No, no, no, you're doing it again. Round of. Round of applause for me. Matthew's in Olney. Matthew, question or answer? A question, please, James, carry on. I was wondering, how many years after Christ was born, was the actual christian calendar written? Established. Established, yeah. It would be a roman emperor, wouldn't it, who'd converted to Christianity and sort of reset the julian calendar. Julian calendar it is. So be Julian. I don't know is the answer, because I know that the Bible wasn't written, I believe, till 200 years after Christ had died. That might well be true, but a, I don't know, and b, it's not really relevant to the question that you're asking, is it? Well, it is kind of relevant because it's based on myths or. Well, it could be true, depending if you. No, no, but it isn't. In terms of. In terms of how long after the reported birth of Christ did the roman calendar become christian? Is easy to answer. It's got. It's got nothing to do with when the Bible was written or whether or not it's true. Well, certain facts in the christian calendar, I know they debated Easter was. But again, that's because it was posited to fall on pagan festivals so that the people who'd been converted by missionaries didn't feel too violently removed from their previous traditions. So I'm sure you're not doing this, but quite often, questions about the Bible and dates and things like that are designed to sort of smuggle in a curious subtext. I stress. I'm absolutely certain you're not doing that. So when was the. Is. It's the julian calendar. Is it. Is it called the julian calendar? When was the julian calendar established? I presume that's quite easy to answer. Thank you, Matthew. Daniel's in Bromley. Daniel, question or answer? If a question, please. James, are you eating? I'm not, no. Are you sure? Have you got your teeth in? 100%. The question is about food. Carry on, chefs. So I was watching Gordon Ramsay the other day, and I noticed that some chefs had much taller hats than others. Really? Yes. And I was just wondering, really weird tall hats. So, like the round white hats, but really tall. So I was just wondering why. Why do some chefs have taller hats than others? I like that. And, I mean, we can probably work out that the answer will have something to do with identifying them in crowded kitchens and knowing that you were dealing with the right fella. Like a kind of. But. But we need to hear it from a definitive fella, don't we? Definitively, yes. From some sort of chef? From some sort of chef, hopefully, who has a tall hat as well. That's the phrase I was looking for. Daniel. Some sort of chef. Leave it with me. 1112, even 39 chef's hats. Why are they different? When was the calendar that we think of as christian, the ADBC distinction, first inaugurated? We did that one. How do you put borders between two bodies of water? Why do you get bad luck if you break a mirror? And when did tobacco. Who first smoked tobacco and who. Just talk to me about anniversaries. Daniel's in Islington. Daniel, question or answer? Hi. Good afternoon, James. Hello. Hi. Well, the answer to the christian calendar is that the gregorian calendar. Gregorian? Gregorian. Where did I get Julian from? No, it was the julian calendar and later in the Middle Ages, it was established, the gregorian calendar. It is a slight upgrade date for the julian calendar where it's based on the bias years, you know, when you have to readjust the years in order not to lose catch up with the. So when was the julian calendar introduced? It was introduced by Augustus, the first emperor. What year? Yeah, it was before Christ, the 40 or 50 BC. It can't have been before Christ the year of our Lord was established before our Lord was born. No, because the christian calendar, as the prior college said, it does not exist. It's not the christian calendar. So the julian calendar got co opted by Christianity. I knew this question was dodgy. I knew it was. They always are. All questions about his religious history of dodgy, because someone thinks they're being an absolute genius by demonstrating that it's not absolutely cast in stone. Yeah, I. What I know is that the julian calendar, it was named after Julius Caesar. Yeah, I know that. The one who prepared it, Julian Clary. Yeah. And actually, if you see September, October, those are names, the months based on the numeration of the months where. But Julia, Julius Caesar took the 7th month. He gave himself an extra day. That's right. August. Yeah. The extra day was technically in February, because in all julian calendar, at the beginning of the Roman Empire, the end of the year was the 28 February, and later you had the beginning of the year. There was the. Of March, the 1 march, when the Senate was open. So the answer is 40 odd years BC. Around that. Yeah, 46. Before Christianity. No, I know, I know. And it's all very interesting and I don't want to sound ungrateful, but we got a lot to get through. So I hear what you're saying and you're right, the kind of refinement into the Gregor Gregory calendar and what have you. But I guess the original question would be answered as you did 40 odd years BC, which I think the bloke who asked the question already knew, which is why I smelt a rat and my rat smelling skills are next level. Smelling a rat is like making. No, Zam is in Clacton. Zam, question or answer? Oh, is that me? It's unlikely. There are two Zam's in Clacton waiting on my phone line at the moment, mate. I've got some one and a half answers for you. Well, just the one you've cleared with my top crack team of producers, please. Okay, fair enough. No, the lady who had the question about the wedding anniversary. Yes, it goes back. It's a fairly recent tradition, but one which fancies itself as a much older one. It goes back to medieval Germany and the Holy Roman Empire, when men would present their wives with gifts on their anniversaries and they would crown them in the, you know, sort of tradition of, you know, Charlemagne. Yes. You know, when he was crowned emperor of the Holy Roman Empire in 800 with a silver wreath on their 25th anniversary or a gold one on their. On their. And where do we know where paper and lace and things like that came from? I think that was much more recent. I seem to remember reading a few years ago about how a lot of that stuff sort of was coming about in the 1920s from America. Like, mother's day was sort of. I think I'm going to give you sort of a smattering of applause, but I think that the deborah wanted more detail about the weirder ones, like the lace in the paper and stuff like that, than about the massive. In terms of, like, where this is, you know, paper lace and tin and weird, weird stuff like that came from. But you get. You get a smattering modern affectation without sort of any sort. But you stupid. Even affectations have sources. Well, that's true. That is true. Yeah. But, um. But no, the tradition of, um, uh, the gold and the silver falling from royalty makes perfect sense. And it earns you half a round of applause now. Oh, is that really a whole. That feel like a half to you, mate? Well, that sounded like too much. Try again. That's it. There we go. You ended up there with, I would estimate, about one and two thirds. Steve's in Derby. Second call from Derby today. I was born in Derby, Steve. Did you know that was. Yeah. Oh, dear. See if you can find the blue plaque, mate. I'll give you the money myself. Well, question or answer? Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, answer. Regarding chef's hat. Oh, yes. Yeah, you sort of. You sort of. Right, yeah. Traditionally, or originally, should I say, the head chef always wore the tallest hat so that he could be spotted by the chefs department, sous chefs, etcetera. But in today's kitchens, it's immaterial. People now wear skull caps because at one time they thought they were under the impression that if they wore the tall chef's hat, which is called a toque, that gave more air around your head. And so if you didn't have a tall hat and circulate the air. Then you'd go bald very, very quickly. But that's been proven to be just a falsehood. And now people wear all different sizes, whatever they fancy, really. Qualifications and a chef. Carry on. Where do you work? Can I ask? Do you mind? No. I've got my own place in Shardlow, just outside Derby. What's it called? Steve's pie place. Get yourself down to Steve's pie place sharpish. I can tell just by talking to him that he's a top lad with a great line in pies. And, Steve, I owe you such a huge favor. Because you've reminded me of someone else I meant to give a little bit of a business boost to. Today. My friend Aaron, who sells the big issue outside the English National Opera. It's the Coliseum, isn't it? On St. Martin's Lane. He is waiting for you now. So if you're about to go out for your lunch. Or if indeed you're anywhere near Covent Garden at any point this afternoon, he's newly equipped his Aaron with a contactless clicker. So you can buy a copy of the big issue. Without even having any cash in your pocket. Please go and buy a copy of the big issue of him. Because he is a really lovely young man. And he is absolutely deserving of your support and your charity. And I don't know what to do anymore about all the people sleeping in doorways. As I make my way to work in the morning. So I have decided, and if you wish, you can call it virtue signaling or whatever you want. But I get to speak to over a million people a week. And I get to ask every single one of them in London or central London today. To buy a big issue, wherever you are in the country. But specifically because I know this lad and I like him. And he's fighting back. And you can help him. So get yourself down to the English National Opera. The Coliseum on St. Martin's Lane, next to Cafe Nero. Buy a big issue. You don't even have to tell him that I sent you. But just get yourself down there, buy a big issue off Aaron. And you'll have my undying gratitude. Coming up at 173. It's 1251 already. One of those days where we wonder where the time has gone. We've asked Charlie Higson if he'd mind voicing our mashup of David Davis and Swiss. Tony, we haven't yet heard back. If you know him, have a word, will you? It's an act of love. Mystery hour is still unfolding. We still don't know why. You get seven years bad luck if you break a mirror. We need to help. Was it Josh? No, it wasn't Josh. What was the name of the lad with his geography class? We need to help the lad in his geography class. How do they. I think it's fairly obvious, but you still get a round of applause if you ring in and answer it. How do they draw the borders between two bodies? Between. It was Jude. That was it. Between two adjoining bodies of water. Chef's hats. Calendars. We've done pancakes, we've done. Who first smoked tobacco? I don't think that's knowable. And the odder anniversaries, the paper, the lace, those kind of things, where does that come from? I've got a feeling it's sort of. I think it's quite english and you're looking at a kind of Anglo Saxon or almost a viking y origin, but I could be wrong. It's on the board. If you can answer it, there's a round of applause up for grabs. And, of course, if you are an actual viking, there could be a rayliota. Do you know, I sometimes come across as a bit of a know all, so it's very important to acknowledge areas of ignorance. Someone writing the other day about Anglo Saxon, the idea that Anglo Saxon, I think, obviously. Sorry to bring everything back to Brexit. I think it was a pro Brexit person trumpeting Anglo saxon culture as something that Brexit would help us defend. And it was pointed out that Saxony and Anglia are german. And to my shame, I'd always thought Anglia was the roman word for England. East Anglia, all. But no, even the anglo bit of Anglo Saxon is German. Judeo Christian. That would be Middle Eastern Anglo Saxon. That would be German. So why are we brexiting? To restore Anglo saxon supremacy within our Judeo christian culture. Yeah, yeah. James is in Blackheath. James, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah, we just heard the answer about the gregorian and julian calendars, which is basically correct. But I thought the original question was, when did we start using anno Domini? Which the Julian answer didn't answer. Okay, yes, that's helpful. I'm just reading a very good book by Tom Holland we, like, called Millennium, about the first millennium. And he covers this. And part of the thesis is a sort of struggle for reasserting papal authority across Christendom. A lot of Saxons involved, and he said, to learn about the millennium. One of the popes introduced the decision to use Anno Domini to date everything from. Because until then, most historians and chroniclers would date it from the reign of a local king, an emperor, a caesar or a lord. So you had all these different chronologies which didn't really tie up properly. And as part of this sort of push for papal supremacy, around about the year 1000 or 1033, he started using Anno Domini. Wow. So it was almost marketing. Yeah, it was marketing. Sorry, I have to go to confession now, probably. Yeah, I love that. And Tom Holland, I should mention, because he's given us some pleasure there, and he's clearly giving you some pleasure. He's campaigning, I think, against the Stonehenge plans at the moment. Isn't he campaigning? Very passionate. Yeah, he is. He's a good guy. He clearly is a good guy, and so are you. And you get a round of applause and there it is. Dave Wolfe, Abbey. Question or answer? Go on then, Dave, for the mirror one. Why did we get seven years bad luck when we break a mirror? The people that used to work in mirror making factories, when you broke a mirror, you'd get it, get taken out your wages. And it used to take seven years to pay off. Seven years to pay it off, yeah. Qualifications, Dave? I just got told years ago by one of my mates who's big on history. So, Dennis. Dennis told you. Dennis? Yeah, seven years. You break a mirror and they take out of your wages so incrementally that it takes seven years to pay it back. So, I mean, this is in that victorian time. I don't. I mean, what do you reckon? Was Dennis a stand up guy? And were you still in touch? Yeah. Yes, he's solid. Is he solid? My cleverest might vote at Brexit. You're what? Is he solid, Dave? Dennis? Yeah, 100%. I'm not sold on this, but I don't want to cast aspersions on your mate Dennis. No, people don't. Normally. I'm going to give you a round of applause, all right, but, I mean, frankly, you've torn it out of my cold, dead hand. Sam's in Chichester. So, Dave, find out. You go, Sam, question or answer? I can't believe I gave that round of applause. That was soft. Go on, Sam, answer about lace and paper. Wedding anniversary. Yes. Yes. The important thing to remember is historically, for example, lace, like old medieval wedding traditions of gifts, of giving gifts to your wife. Yes. So the lace evolved out of where giving a boltic fabric was, because lace was once handmade. Like, now I get it. The phone lines breaking up. The phone breaking up. Nottingham was a great centre of lace. No, that's all right. So, do we have a rough idea? Because medieval is a quite a broad chart jumping traditions. Most wedding traditions evolve out of the. I can't remember what it's now called. Well done, Sam. Good work. 1257 is the time I should mention this earlier, because I wasn't entirely sure of my facts, but if you follow me on Twitter, I retweeted this from Kasia, and I shall retweet it again because it's very pertinent to the ongoing conversation. Donald Tusk. This is a picture of Donald Tusk painting an industrial chimney. He had to work like this for eight years during the communist regime in Poland, as he was blacklisted by the communist government due to his political activism. Just in case someone uses the Brussels elites argument. So there you have it. Fellows who own the Ritz and bankroll, people like Boris Johnson and Nigel Farage, they are anti elite. Donald Tusk painting industrial chimneys for eight years because the communist government didn't want him to be engaging in any political activism. He's the real elite in Brussels, and don't you forget it. James is in York. James, question or answer? Answer, bud. Carry on, James. So the question was, I believe, how do we know the borders of water? Yeah, yeah. Between two bodies of water. Between two bodies of water. So what's happened to the phone line? That's two in a row. Two. I think we're being sabotaged. I can't hear it. The phone lines all give him a round of applause. Anyway, Chris is in Andover. Chris, if your phone line is rubbish, I'm resigning. Hello, James. Hopefully not. First time caller, mate. You know, there's a whole army of Brexiters up and down the country now who are even angrier and purple than they were before, because I'm staying put. Carry on, Chris. It's not about Brexit, mate. It's about the mirror one. I know. Seven years. What you suggesting Dennis, might not be. Might not be entirely trustworthy on this one? That's partially right. It was deducted from the wages, however, it was actually deducted from wages of housemaids and chambermaids. What would happen is, if they broke a mirror, it was deducted from their wages, and that did take seven years. However, it was from the maids in the houses. That. A bit easier to believe, but I'm going to give you a round of applause as well. You have to share it with Dennis. Thank you very much, Dave. But he owes half to Dennis. It's all very hard to keep track of. Thank goodness Sheila Fogarty is here to restore order. That's it from me for another day. We will be doing it again tomorrow from ten. And I'd leave you just with the image of David Davis as Swiss. Tony, that's my gift from you today, Sheila, just for the sheer fun of it. I was going to go, but I couldn't do it. From three today. How much privacy should a 14 year old have online and off at two, despite huge reservations, the Met commissioner has announced that spit hoods will be rolled out as part of a number of measures aimed at protecting police officers. Fair enough.