Are bogeys nutritional?

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's three minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where our weekly adventure into the unknown is about to begin. If you're not familiar with this part of the program, allow me to suggest that you're in for a bit of a treat. It's kind of the radio equivalent of the notes and queries columns, the Q and A columns that have been popular in newspapers and magazines for years. But here you get your answer immediately. Instant gratification. Instant intellectual gratification, one might dub it. And we celebrate knowledge. So you're not allowed. I should make it clear from the get go, because I forgot last week, you're not allowed to look anything up. People are going to ring in with a bunch of questions. If you know the answer to one of them, you need to ring in with the answer. I'll ask you how you know it, what your qualifications are, and you'll tell me. It could be anything from the sublime, frankly, to the ridiculous. You might be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, or you might have seen it on the telly last night. All you got to do is prove to me that you know this, not that you've just googled it or whatever. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Zero 345-606-0973 the number that you need. Is that it? Do I need to do any other housework? Yeah, I do. I must. I mean, if you haven't listened before, you'll soon work out what's going on. Don't be boring. There you go. That's always a good rule. That's actually true across the whole 15 hours. If you're thinking of ringing the program, don't be dull. If you're going to be dull, it's going to be handbags. The point being, of course, that the question you ask needs to have an answer that will be of interest to lots and lots and lots of people, not just you. So if it's about a roundabout near your house, it's got an exit, you're not sure where it leads and you're not allowed to drive up it. That's probably not going to set the switchboard on fire. On a national level, and similarly, repetition, you can go to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at the archive of Misgr it's great stuff anyway, but it might give you a steer on whether or not the question that you are convinced is absolutely amazing. Isn't. And I'm going to take. I think I'm going to take a question from Carl, from Twitter. I keep saying every single week that I'll allow a Twitter question to come on. If you use the hashtag Twitter mystery hour, or even just the hashtag mystery hour, actually. And he's provided photographic evidence that this is actually true. How come he can throw an egg? He threw an egg over his house. What has happened to my show? I just said that out loud. He threw an egg over his house and sent me pictures of it to prove that you can throw an egg over at house without it breaking. And he did. I've got. I've got the footage here. Do you want me to retweet it? He threw an egg over his house and it didn't break. How cut? It landed on the lawn. How come? How did that. He wants to know. I'm not surprised. He wants to know. Someone told him it was possible he did it. There were quite a few false alarms. He could, you know, make an omelette with the contents of his garden. But. All right, Mark's in Northampton. Mark, question or answer? Ah, thank you, Mark. So I've got to say hello to someone in Northampton who I bumped into in Leicester Square yesterday, so I'll look up his name while you crack on with your question or answer. It's a question. Please, James, carry on, mate. Feel free to be in the office. This is going to be too depressing for you because it's been a tough old week, but. Tough old week, mate. Well, yes. You know how we're undergoing this incredible redistribution of wealth and it's kind of sort of globalized capitalism is sort of how you could call it. Now, under that model, is it inevitable that one person is going to end up owning everything? Because all of the trends move in the direction of wealth, moving from the many to the few. Does the few eventually become the one? How would that question be answerable under globalised? Well, I don't know. Professor Howe, possibly. Professor Howe's not going to know, mate. He's all about test tubes and Bunsen burners. Yeah, this is where the question might fall down. But maybe a professor of sociology. It's never going to be one. It's never going to be one. But when you look at the amount of wealth that is held by the 0.01% or, you know, half of the world's wealth is held by 80 people. That's where your suspicion comes from, right? That eventually, 100 years down the line, it may just be one or one organization, or a thousand years and everybody else is on the payroll, as it were. Or not. In which case, I love the question. I think it might be a PhD thesis rather than a mystery hour opener, but I'm going to put it on the board. Under the. Under current economic conditions, will we eventually live in a world where one entity owns everything? Yeah. And if you're going to do a PhD thesis, you really need to do pub games throughout the regions of the UK. That would be much more fun. Probably not wrong. But you've asked your question now, so you can't rescind it. Mark. Thank you. I get that, actually, because, you see, I have this. I've got a new theory. Yeah, I can hear you groaning already that we're becoming a buy to let democracy in Britain. When you look at all of our public services being owned by foreign governments and then owned by plutocrats, shareholders, dividends eventually, and you see that property ownership is diminishing now. First time in generations. Do we go back to the 19th century model where we were essentially chattels of mill owners and masters? No, too depressing. This is mystery out. Don't do that again. Chris is in Ealing. Chris, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So my question is, can you have a one letter word in Scrabble? Yeah, but only on. Only on the first go. Can you? Of course you can. Oh, well, very good. Well, I presume you can. What makes you think you wouldn't be able to? I thought you could have to start with two. I mean, I assume I could google it, but. No, you're not. You're not allowed to google it. But why wouldn't you be able to put down a. I don't know. That was my question to you. No, I'm going to take it. I wanted to call in and, you know, I'm from California. Welcome. I listen with my daughter, who's seven, and if she could hear you call me a prune on the podcast, it would make her life. What's her name? Heidi. Heidi, you have my utmost sympathies for having a father who is an irredeemable prune. That's great. Thank you so much. Sure. Thank you. I'll take the round of applause. I'm not doing requests. I'll tell you, I'm not doing requests. I'm not going to call anyone else a prune for the benefit of their seven year old daughter. Thank you though, Chris. Ten minutes after twelve. I could be wrong about that, but it's up there now. If you need a stewards inquiry, dial away. Ashley is in graze. Ashley, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Right, I have a little bit of mental chewing gum, basically. I have a friend that likes to pick his nose a lot. Oh, yes. And I was wondering, are bogus nutritious? I don't know that we should overuse that word, but it's not rude, is it? I don't know what else you could say. Nutritious as in calorific, basically. He seems to enjoy it so much and I'm just wondering whether there's any nutritional content. I have a theory about this. This is actually back in the day and this will probably make sense to maybe two. Probably one person currently listening to the program. One of the genesis of mistrial was my firm belief that picking your nose and eating it builds up your immunity to diseases and viruses because, you know, like the small amount of germs that you're ingesting will build up your immunity to other germs. And about six years after doing it on mystery hour, there was some research published in Scandinavia that proved that it was true. So that is one answer. But that's not nutritional as such, is it? No, no. I mean. So you mean could you live on. Could you live on bogeys? Well, I mean, my mate seems to. Seems to think so because every time I see him, he's picking his nose. Go on. And what's his name? That's why you're really wrong in. His name's Jamie. Jamie the nose picker. What is the nutritional content of your nose? Content? That's what you want to know, really? Basically, yeah. That's my poke with it. Leave it with me. That's why they pay me the silly money I poke, isn't you. What is the nutritional content of your nasal content? So 345-6060 973. Who's going to know and why? And under current economic conditions, is it conceivable that eventually everything will be owned by one entity? 1212 is the time. Roger is in Sydenham. Roger, question or answer? Question. I see gorillas and chimpanzees are picking their nose, so there must be some merit in it. Well, it tastes nice, that's why they do it. It's not necessarily nutritional, but let's not get bogged down in bogeys. What did you ring in to ask? Right. My question is, when I tune up my guitar. Sometimes it's gone flat. And I can understand that because the strings are slackened off. But what I don't understand is that so often it's gone sharp. And I've asked many musicians and no one can give me an answer as to why that should happen. I said. So sometimes when you've left it for a while and you come back and it's out of tune, it's gone sharp. Which you think is. Hang on. Doesn't it go as you. As you turn it and I'm not. As you turn it, doesn't it go through the whole range? Doesn't it go flat? Natural, sharp? Natural? Flat. But it's just as likely to be sharp as it is to be flat. Very often it's sharp. Sorry? Very often it's flat, but I find even more often it's gone sharp. And I don't understand how it could because it's gone through flat. It's what? Sorry? It's gone past flat and hit the sharp of the next note down. Don't shake your head at me. It's gone up, it's gone sharp. It's gone tighter. It can't have got tighter. The strings gone tight. It can't have got tight. It can't. No, because it go. Doesn't it? I mean, I am really out on a limb here, mate, so I'm quite comfortable to make a prune of myself in the interest of amusing everybody else. But if you've got every natural note, hash sharp above it and flat below it, right? That's right, yeah. So you've got it tuned to natural and you leave it for a while and then it goes. And then it goes to flat and you leave it for a bit longer and it gets even looser and it goes to the sharp of the note below. Yeah, but it goes sharp to the note above. And that's what I don't understand how you sure it goes sharp? Well, is it. Do you keep it in environmental conditions that cause the strings to contract? No, I just keep it at normal room temperature and I tune it up with a tuner. And so often it shows that when I come to it, to tune it up, it's gone sharp. Okay. It hasn't gone flat at all. Can you start scrabble with a one letter word? I'm hearing a lot. I'm getting a lot of abuse on that one. I think I might stop answering questions for the next quarter and start again at 12:30 what do you think, Roger? Okay, then I gotta put it on the board. Why does Roger's guitar go sharp when it apparently goes up? When it goes out of tune? I understand the question. I thought my answer was brilliant, but I sense I've lost the room. I come to you first after the travel news. Nigel, you're listening to James O'Brien's mystery on LBC. The time now is just approaching 12:15 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Physics. Physics in it. Carl has just retweeted that picture of him throwing an egg over his house and it doesn't break. He wants to know how come physics. That's not going to be an acceptable answer. I'm going to need a little bit more than that. Okay. I think I was wrong about Scrabble, so there's a round of applause up for grabs if you're quick and you can get a phone line into the building, which is a little tough at the moment. I think I was right about the guitars, oddly. But I'll leave that hanging as well because I've made something of a prune of myself thus far. The nutritional content of the contents of your nose. Zero 345-606-0973 is there any. And the guitar tuning question, why does it go sharp sometimes when you presume that the slackening of the string would make it go flat? Nigel's in Burma. Is he? Nigel, question or answer? All right, James, I've got a question for you. Good man. All right. My question is, why is it that white people are the only race that's got so many different colors of hair? So many different. I mean, you know, they've got ginger brunettes, blonde, mouse brown and that, you know, obviously, you know what the color of black people's hair is? India and Chinese and that. But white people are the outside. You don't. You don't even get much shade either, do you? You can't. I mean, it's always hard to be 100% anything but you very rarely see an asian fellow or a black fellow with, with. I mean, it's dark black, almost always as well, Chinese. Yeah. It's obviously to do with northern european pigmentation. I said, I don't. I've got no. Why am I talking? I've got no idea. I don't know. I love that question. It's just puzzled me that, you know, why is this? Why is there so many different shades of. Given that we all come from the same roots, the same sort of corner of Africa, how come people who've ended up with white skin? Well, that might be the same answer. How come people have. Some people have ended up with white skin despite the fact that we all started off black? Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's my question. Well, I'll leave the hair question. The other one's possibly timely. What I do. People say, what do you do if you wanted to actually make everything better? First thing I do, everyone has to have a DNA test to establish their geographical and ethnic origins. And then we can stop arguing about who's better and who's worse. But we'll focus instead on the gingers. How come it's only white people that have got different hair colors? 1221 is the time jazz is in Coventry. Jazz. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Right. It's about the egg being thrown over and not breaking. Oh, yeah. Basically, I used to do this trick many, many years ago, when I was a teenager. But it wasn't throwing the egg over a wall or a roof or anything. Basically, if you cup your hands together with your fingers interlocked, you put the egg in long ways between your palm, where the bone is. And if you try to squeeze that egg, and as long as it doesn't slip, you'll never break that egg. It doesn't matter how strong you are. So basically, that eggs falling on the long end. Yeah, but we're not. I mean, that's the what, not the why. Well, that's why it's not broken. No, but if you rang up and said to me, how come when I squeeze an egg really hard and it doesn't slip, it doesn't break? And Carl rang up and said, oh, it's because when I throw an egg over a house, it doesn't break, it wouldn't be an answer, would it? Well, I think so. Because at the end of the day. But let me rephrase that, then it wouldn't be an answer, would it? Okay. It's just another example of the unbreakability of an egg in surprising circumstances. Why doesn't it break? Jazz. Um. Yeah, all right, you got me there. It's just one of those days. 1223 Martin's in Chelsea. Martin, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. I'd like to know where the expression, a bit of how's your father comes from. It's a nice expression, actually. You don't hear it very often anymore. I haven't heard it for years. No other way. I want to know how it alludes, you know, to what it alludes to, which is. Romantic entanglements. Exactly. It's probably a musical song, don't you think? Or something. Like that. That's usually how it works. But I don't know, I'm just sort of. I'd be. I wouldn't be surprised if it was a sort of 19th century, turn of the century music hook. Bows. Your father, or something like that. Oh, have a banana. But I don't know, obviously, so I should put it on the board. You used an expression the other day on your show, a bit of anki panky. Yes. Yes, it is. It is. Let's just find out. How's your father? Why is that? Why was that. Is that. Has that been a synonym for romantic entanglements? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Dave is in Dartford. Dave. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Guitar tuning. Yes. Yeah. The reason they go sharp is because they're cold. Thank you. Meteorological conditions. Meteorological conditions. Easy for you to say. Expansion and shrinking of guitar strings. So he probably keeps it in the spare room where he doesn't have the radiator on. And when he goes in after a while to have a bit of a strum, it'll be sharp. Thank you very much. Qualifications? Guitarist. Guitarist. Round of applause for Dave. Very nicely done, mate. Very nicely done indeed. We also would like an answer to the question of whether or not, under current economic conditions, it would be possible to arrive at a place where absolutely everything is effectively owned by a single entity. But we've got our guitar. Answer. We need an egg. Answer. We need the nutritional contents of. The contents of your nose. Answer. We've done the guitar. Answer. Why do only white people have different hair colors? And the origins of the phrase how's your father? Jane is in Greenwich. Jane, question or answer? Question, please. Jane, carry on. Does meat that we eat get rigor mortis? It does. And then it passes and then you eat it. Okay, so you. That's why, you know, you hang beef for a long time. Best beef is hung. But it would. Yeah, any. Anything that's dead would get rigor mortis. But I don't think rigor mortis is a permanent condition. It passes after. I don't really know what I'm talking about, Jane. I'm right, but only because I read a lot of thrillers and I haven't really got the evidence at my fingertips to send you away feeling that you've been confidently provided with a. With a comprehensive answer. Yes. So I'll leave it on the board. Okay. Why are you worrying about this? Um. I don't know. I just. I just. Sorry, it's a bit morbid. Isn't it? But I just. Animals. Yeah, I just. I don't know, I just wondered. I just. I was always curious, you know. Okay, so what, I mean, rigor malt is in. In animals that we eat. What's the. What's the picture? What's the story? What do you mean? That's. That's the question. That's the story. You want to know what's going on. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It's pretty bad. When you ask a question, I repeat it in what I think is a concise and informative fashion and you ask me what I mean. Sorry. No, it's my fault. 1226. Let's get Jane an answer quick. Oliver is in Macclesfield. Question or answer for Oliver? It's an answer. James, carry on, mate. Basically the bogey question. Yes. Yes. Nasal contents. I prefer. Nasal contents are basically a form of excretion from the body. Now, by definition, it can't be nutritious, otherwise the body wouldn't excrete it. Your body keeps the stuff that's nutritious and uses it and gets rid of the stuff that isn't. And I mean, it's not just excretion, it's also stuff that you've inhaled that's been caught in your nostril hairs. Exactly. Well, I'm not sure. I didn't know about that, but. So if you worked in a custard factory, this is actually going to be true. If you worked in a custard factory and there's a lot of custard powder flying around in the air which contains egg yolk. Contains egg yolk and sundry other delicious ingredients and you breathed in a lot of custard powder, you'd end up with custard bogies and they would be nutritious. Your body would keep your nasal hairs, take all the stuff that's useful and moves it upwards, shut the front door. You absorb nutrients through your. Through your nostrils? It's possible, yeah. Your hair and your nostrils is actually really complicated and sophisticated. They're like your antenna to another work. What? I'm going to give him around. So. No, don't know. They can't be nutritious because if they were, the body would absorb the good bits. Yeah. Qualifications, Oliver? I'm a fully qualified JSG. Go on. Just some guy. Just shock you almost lose your round of applause for that appalling intervention, but you can have it. Go on. Welcome, welcome. 28. After twelve. Kieran is in Leeds. Kieran. Question or answer? It's an answer to the egg question. Good man. Carry on. The egg is a shape of an arch, which the shape itself is very strong. So that's why a lot of railways, bridges and a lot of different ships are that shape, because the actual force itself won't. It won't break and that's why a lot of actual doorways and your house can be the shape of an arch as well. Yes. So if it. I mean, if it lands, and probably the way that the weight is distributed means it's likely to land on its end. If it lands on the arch, it'll be alright. If it lands on its side, it will break. Yeah. Qualifications. I learned it at school. Did the teacher demonstrate it by lobbing an egg in the air? No. Like your previous caller says, when he says, you put it in your hand and with the two points and you try and squeeze it together as hard as you can and it doesn't break, the teachers gives a bit of an explanation afterwards. It's a lie. He would have been a better teacher if he'd lobbed it over a house, wouldn't he? You'd remember it even more, but you can't have anything. Round of applause. Well played, Kieran. Everyone's a critic. I love the egg question, but it's veering dangerously into partridge territory. How dare you, Niall? We don't veer dangerously into partridge territory. We plant a flag in it every day and claim it as our own. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. And the questions that still need answers include the relationship between rigor mortis and meat that we eat. The origin of the phrase how's your father? The reason why only white people have a variety of hair colours. And we've done the eggs, we've done the nasal contents and we want to know whether or not it is feasible, under current economic conditions, that we could end up living in a world where everything is owned by one person, which would be an old fashioned monarchy in a way, wouldn't it? Wouldn't it? 12:30 Simon Conway has the headlines. The prime minister says the Brexit bill must be passed by parliament unamended. It's after the House of Lords backed an opposition amendment calling for the rights of EU citizens living here to be protected. A man has pleaded guilty to raping a stranger just hours before his wedding. 28 year old Derry McCann from east London attacked the woman in a park in January. The European Parliament has voted to lift Marine Le Pen's immunity from prosecution. The french presidential candidate is under investigation in France for tweeting graphic images of Islamic State group executions. LBC weather becoming mostly dry and bright. Some showers in the north later and a high of ten degrees. This mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1233 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions in need of answers. Does meat get rigor mortis? I love the idea that you just tuned in for the first time, expecting us to be leading Britain's conversation about all the major political movements of the moment. You should have heard the other question about noses. I'm not going back to that. I forgot how many people find it disturbed. I don't. I'm supremely comfortable with these sort of conversations. I've got young children. But obviously a lot of you have been put off your lunch, so look on the bright side, you might lose a bit of weight. The observation, of course, is about meat and rigor mortis. What is the relationship? Does the meat we eat have rigor mortis? You see the sense in that question, origin of the phrase, how's your father? Why do only white people have different hair colors? Although you've. I've been sent a few pictures of aboriginal people from Australia who do have a more broad palette of hair color as well. So there are exceptions, but we'll stick with the generality. The question about whether or not one entity will end up owning everything. And there's a round of applause up. Actually, I won't tell you if you haven't been paying attention. It's your own fault Tom's in Ilford. Tom. Question or answer? Carry on. As far as I recall, I was funny for him. I've got my colleague from QI. It was a code, basically. You know, young Bo would come paying a visit to his paramour, touring times. Oh, yeah. After a few pleasantries of exchange, you know, you'd say, oh, how's your father? Now? I've heard it's obviously. It's an innocent standing expression, but basically the same, you know, where's your father? You know, and of course, if he wasn't holding the round and some illicit assignation might be in order. So, I mean, I don't quite get it. I mean, I understand what you've said, but. So you'd go. You'd go around, your girlfriend had opened the door and you'd say, how's your father? To establish whether he was in or not? Oh, yeah, basically. That's not what you said, though. That's what I said. So I'm having the round of applause but that's basically what I meant, or if you might have understood it, but. So you say, how's your father? And she says, he's not in. Let's get your trousers off, mate. You've pulled. Yeah, I quite. Yeah, it's got qualifications, Tom. Well, it's something I can't long talk about. I might have seen a qi, so I'm not expecting anything from it, but, no, I'm going to go. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I like that. It makes. It makes sense. So someone can challenge it later if they must, but I quite like that. I think that's a good one. It makes a lot of. How's your father? Oh, he's just having a nice drink in the. In the parlor. Oh, all right, then. I'll go and I'm going to see him flipping it. How's your father? He's out. Yeah. Up the stairs with you, my lady. Martin's in Southport. Martin. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. Yeah. When you're on the football pitch and you kick the ball through an opposition player's legs, why did he call it a note? Oh, I know this. There's two answers to this question. No one knows for sure which one it is and it's to do with that. It's to do with the composite parts of the word nutmeg. So nutmeg rhymes with what part of the anatomy? Leg. So nutmeg, you put it through your leg. The other bit is the other. What's the other half of the word? That's not Meg. Not what does the ball go under when you're not Meg? I thought that's what it might have been, but I just have to have the question 50 50. No one knows. It's in brewers dictionary of phrase and fable, which I happen to have read. Round of applause for me, thank you very much. 1237 is the time. Bola is in Lewisham. Bowler. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Okay, I need to phrase this correctly, but will they ever reach a point where we basically, we've exhausted the maximum amount of music combinations or the maximum permutations of music? Does that make any sense? It makes perfect sense. And I presume the answer is no. For this reason. Think of the highest note imaginable and now go one note higher. So surely music's infinite. Is it infinite? I mean, within the context of what can be heard by the human ear, then obviously there will be something finite on it. But in terms of theoretically, there won't be infinity is essentially theoretical concept and there's no end. Look, here you go. I'll do it for you. Now. Are you ready for this? I'm going to sing. Okay. Do re, mi faso, lati do. You could carry on forever. I'll try. No, I'll try. No, you're not hearing me. No, I know. I will try. I'll go. Do re, mi faso, lati do re mi. Fazo. You misunderstood me. Is there a maximum number of combinations of those? But there can't be, because if there's no maximum number of notes, there can't be a maximum number of combinations. Really? Yeah. So. So. God, I'm good. Are you sure about this? Absolutely. Well, think about. No, you don't need any shoes. Use your noodle. Where would it end? Where would it say, la, la, la, la, la. It goes on forever. No, but it surely will end at the point where you cut off. How can you be cut? All right, try this for size. Okay. Think of a. Think of a. Think of a number. Half it. Yep. Halve it again. Keep going. Will it ever be zero? This is what used to stress me out. This is. This is plagued me since my childhood. I can't. I can't. It will never be zero. It will never be zero. Because you can have it again and again and again and again. It's infinitesimal and tiny. It's the same with the notes. Right up forever. Are you sure? Okay. I don't know. I'll show you how sure I am. Bola. That's how sure I am. Thank you very much. Kevin's in Norwich. Kevin. Question or answer? Yeah, I've got an answer. Yeah, go on, Emmett. It's to the capitalism thing. Is it feasible that under current economic conditions, we could live in a world where eventually one entity or individual owns everything? It is possible, as sort of illustrated by meant, the game monopoly. Unless the government was to intervene, eventually one company would own everything other than people could boycott companies before they actually got so massive that, you know, people might say, well, I'll stop. I'll stop buying Apple phones because they're going to be the only company that sort of does that, you know. But technically, yes, it could happen. As you illustrated earlier on. It's almost happened now with the amount of people and. Yeah, I mean, I like the monopoly analogy because you could imagine, just on an epic scale, that unfolding on a similar level. And eventually somebody ends up with everything through. Through luck or judgment. And the more you've started with the more likely you are to always end up with one person having everything. When you play monopoly, not in our house. You always end up with a board being thrown in the air by whoever's just landed on Mayfair for the second time, mate. With hotels. Yeah. That's probably a wall, then. That would be, wouldn't it? That would be the monopoly equivalent of a war. Or electing Donald Trump. Round of applause for Kevin. Thank you very much. Mix in Basingstoke. Make question or answer? Hello, is the question. Carry on. Why should something as innocuous as a draft through a window result in you waking up with a really stiff, painful neck? I like that. And it just had me. And I'd never really thought about it before and I thought, it's just a bit of air. It's like, how can it have such a painful effect on you? It really can. I mean, you can wake up in agony, can't you? And is it definitely due to a draught? It's not because you, I don't know, had your pillow in the wrong place? No, I think it's generally a draught. I'm not just always blowing my wife because she leaves all the windows open all the time, but. Well, it's good to have fresh air in the bedroom, Mick. It took me three or four days to get over it. All right, mate. Go. Poor little snowflake. So why, if you sleep in a draught, do you wake up with a pain in the neck? It's a good question. Let's get it on the board. What else is on the board? So drafts and necks meet and rigor mortis. How's your father? We've done hair color and white people. Why? Just what? Mostly, almost exclusively white people have their different hair colors done. Economic conditions. I think that's it. We're moving along. Oliver is in reading. Oliver, question or answer? Answer. That's right. Carry on. It's to do with the answer to why do white people in northern european have different hair colors? For a more broad variety, I'll give it a good stamp. Many different ethnicities seem to have different hair colors and eye colors. I got two problems with you, Oliver. Please don't take this personally. Number one, I don't know why, but we seem to have forgotten our. Not really taking calls on hands free on the program. And number two, you don't sound confident enough. So even if you're right, you're not going to get a round of applause. Okay. You have to. You have to. Come on. Instead of saying, I think it might be. I mean, anyone can do that. You need to come on and say, bada bing, bada boom, bada bish bish, bishop. All right, I'll give you the answer there. Come on, then. With the agricultural revolution that happened between 15 and 12,000 years ago in northern Europe. This is much better. You see, this is brilliant. Now you're making got numbers in there, you've got historical context. You're just about blinding us with science. Come on, come on, close it down. Finish it. They originally thought it was to do with a lack of vitamin d. Hair color and eye color is controlled by the melanin production, just like our skin. But the reason in northern Europe you get such a. A lower amount is more through the Gulf Stream and you get this warm, humid climate, particularly in the northern european area. That's why that combines with a lower amount of sunlight. And that went to the farming of gray, which led to a diet which lowered the amount of vitamin D that could be absorbed. That meant that skin color had to get lighter to absorb more sunlight and create more vitamin d. Yeah, it's just brilliant. I've got no idea whether you're right or wrong, but I'm going to give you a round of applause for plausibility qualifications. It's a bit late now. The horse has bolted. Passion for human evolution. And there you go, mate. You see? You see what I did? That just. Life coached you. You came on all querulous and unconfident and questioning and you've gone away sounding as certain as Donald Trump, 43. Ali's in Camden. Question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on. Right. In adult relationships, why do we still label ourselves boyfriend and girlfriend and not man friend and woman friend? Cuz that sounds stupid. Mmm. Does it? Yeah. Is my woman friend. People still use that term some. Well, no one. No one hung around in. Back in the day when these words were first coined, everyone got married. You'd never. You wouldn't have a 50 year old partner who wasn't your husband or wife. It'd be so. We're just. Is. You'd be married never. So just because that was the way the moles worked? Yeah, that's what they say. Partner for partner. No, but. No, it's not that common. As when somebody says it rolls off the lips a lot quicker that. Yeah. You can't go around introducing your man friend to people. Why not? It sounds a bit indecent. No, but the other way as well, though. You can say, oh, it's my boyfriend or my girlfriend. What's the problem? It's just, you know, it's just the way things work. If you feel a little self conscious about your age, when you introduce your girlfriend or your boyfriend, then you just introduce your partner. You can't go around saying man friend, man friend. What do you mean you're not convinced? First of all, the answer is that you would never have had a romantic relationship until, I suppose, the sort of post sixties, really, you would hardly ever encounter anybody who was in a relationship and wasn't married, so you would be boyfriend and girlfriend until you got married. And then post sixties, we've gone to a place where you don't have to get married at all. You can shack up and stay together. We just haven't. The language hasn't caught up with the generational change, but neither does it need to, because apart from you, Ali, no one cares. And your producer. No, no, no. He's blowing smoke up your funny. He's just trying to. No. It's so obvious what the answer to this is. Ask me what the qualifications are. Gone by. Genius. 1245 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1250 is the time. Why do you get a stiff neck if you sleep in a draft? What is the relationship between the meat, what we eat and rigor maltis? There's a free round of applause up for grabs here and you've missed it, you prune. This is plural scrap. I got the scrabble question wrong. No one's running in with the stewards inquiry. You might be able to squeeze in if you're desperate for a round of applause. I bet it'd be Wayne in Basildon. And what else? We're looking at the meat. The rig of mortal stiff neck, I think. Yeah, we're carrying on. And how's your father? We've done. I might get a stewards inquiry on that. Dave's in Lewisham. Dave, question or answer? It's a question. Please, mate, carry on. You know what the question is and you know you're going to get a round of applause for it. I don't know what the question is, but I'm fairly confident I'll get a round of applause. But I always am, mate. Right. I'm gutted to give you this round of applause, however. Go on. When we listen to the radio, we hear that Nick Ferrari's had 1 million viewers this month and you've had 500 viewers this month. How do you know? Steady on, carry on. I think. I think you'll find. I think you'll find that among the under 54s in London at the moment. Over 10% of everybody with the radio on is currently listening to this program. An absolutely record breaking figure. And your question is, how do you know that you're breaking records left, right and center with regards to your listening figures at the moment? James? I don't, I don't. It's. Listen, you put me in an uncomfortable position, Dave, because not only am I breaking records left, right and centre at this precise point in time, I'm also conscious of how what goes up must go down or the tide could easily go out again. And similarly, the mode of measurement is quite odd. So what happens is a bunch of people get sent diaries, some online, some on paper, and they all fill in the bits that they're listening to. So you know what you're listening to at 10:00 on every weekday morning. Well, James O'Brien, of course, and then they extrapolate from the sample of people who've been sent the diaries, the broader population. No, it can't be like that. I swear it is. I swear. Would you feel if your bonus depended on it? It's not exactly the most reliable measurement on the planet, but it's the only one we've got. Telly's the same, actually, Telly's the same, except you've got an electric box on your telly that sends the information to Bob on raid. Not. That's not Bob as in a person called Barbara. That's an organization called Barb. The radio doesn't have that. I don't know whether with the digital dawn it will be easier to do and you'll be able to get a bigger sample, but, yeah, it's all down to diaries, believe it or not. So you're telling me that if that percentage that you spoke to, if they all might have put your station down, actually over the whole population, your 500 listeners a month, might have only been 100 listeners a month. Well, or 5 million. Round of applause for me. Cheeky beggar. Prataps in Islington. Pratap. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. It's the rigor mortis and the food we eat question. So the food we eat does go to rigor mortis. It takes about twelve to 24 hours for it to happen. And the way it goes away is the hanging process, which also, in addition to developing flavor and just making meat more tender, because even a chicken, even a chicken and chicken takes, obviously, the rigor motors process is much, much smaller, slower. That's much quicker. Yes. Rather than twelve to 24 hours, it's more like a couple of hours. So if I. If I. If I were to choke a chicken and then just leave it in the. In the kitchen for a couple of hours, it'd be. But it'd be better and edible. Whereas if I tried to cook it for half an hour later, I would be in all sorts. Yes. I mean, in places like. Because I'm from India, so in India, when you. When you get meat that's been freshly slaughtered, you need to really either pressure cook it or cook it for longer to get it tender. Yeah. So it'd be toughness that you'd be dealing with. That's a really. What are your qualifications? That's a brilliant answer. I'm a chef and I've also been to a couple of abattoirs in the last few years. Oh, boy. Round of applause for Pratap. That's pheasants as well. You hang pheasants for ages, don't you? Has he gone? Oh, it's me. That's all right. No, it's all right for game as well. Yeah, games even. Because it's that much more active. Yeah, yeah, yeah. There you go. Yeah. Blimey, he's good. Give him another round of applause. What the hell happened to me? Mark's in Romford. That's a very in joke, Mark. It's the magical hour. Mark's in Romford. Mark, question or answer? I've got a question for you. Go on, then. Why does brown toast go cold quicker than white toast? Shut the front door. It does, actually. It might do. No, actually, it might do. Because it's absorption. It's the same reason. Here you go. Come here a minute. Have you ever seen a canopy with stripes on it? You know, like an awning outside a shop? Yeah. When the weather's very, very cold and icicles have formed quite often, they've only formed on one of the stripes, if you see what I mean. So one of the colours of the stripes. So it goes, icicles. No. Icicles. Icicles. No. Icicles. No. Icicles. No. Icicles. And that is because dark absorbs heat quicker than cold. So brown would absorb. Yeah. But it also absorbs cold quicker than white. It's why bedouins where. Where dark robes. You actually can. That's physics. You can have it. No, the darker color. Both absorbs. No, come here a minute. It absorbs the dark color, absorbs heat and cold faster than the light color. I know it's. It's unlikely, but that's physics. Hmm? Physics. I'm not convinced. Physics I've never seen. I've never seen a stripy awning with regimented columns of icicles hanging off it. How hard have you looked? How hard have you looked, Mark? Not particularly, but I think I would have noticed. Yeah. I did it in physics with Commander Stewart and he had it. He had a picture of a striped awning. Commander Stewart, then. That might be tricky. That is the reason. All right, well, forget the bit about the awning. The reason why brown toast goes colder than white toast is because it absorbs cold quicker. The dark colors absorb cold quicker than white colors. Light colors. I don't believe that. All right. Why the bedouin wear black robes, I don't know. Because it reflects our. Reflect. It reflects heat. Hang on a minute. No, wait a minute. It's very close to being perfect, this answer, but I appreciate that it's not quite there yet. It reflects heat. The white toast reflects heat and the brown toast doesn't. So it goes colder quick. I'm so close to this. I'm so close, but I'm not close enough. We actually need someone that knows what they're talking about, don't we? Change. Oh, mate, that's true of every 15 hours. I do 3 hours a day, Monday to Friday. You could say that. But my kids need shoes. Too mean about it. I've got a professor on the line. Whether or not we've got time to take his answer before Sheila Fogarty takes over, I do not know. Keith is in Watford. Keith, question or answer? Hello. Yeah, I was going to talk about the music. Yeah, okay. Quickly, though. I'm very short of time. Go on. Is there a phase, infinite amount of music? No, not infinite, because the human ear is limited to low sounds. And in the high sounds, you've got a limited number of notes in between. Yeah, I know that, but we said. We said theoretically. Yeah. No, no, no, you can be more specific than that, which is why I wanted to phone in. If you designate the note a as 440 hz then you've got a finite number of notes in your musical scale and there's a finite amount of combinations you can make with those. Professor Martin is in Manor park. Talk to me about toast. Professor Martin. Well, you're right. It's the. That's it. That's all you need to say? You have a phenomenon called black body radiation. Yes. So a black body will not only absorb heat very well, it will radiate heat. Well, thank you. It absorbs and reflects better than the white stuff. That's right. And the stripey awning icicles. You're absolutely right about that too. Just for people unpersuaded. What are your qualifications? My first degree was physics and I'm professor of robotics at Middlesex University. Last one, Michael. Tunbridge Wells. Question or answer? It's an answer about the scrabble. You're wrong, James. You can't have a one letter word because you have to start with at least two letters. And every time you play a letter on the board, you're putting one letter down. You have to join it to at least another letter. So it has to be a two letter. Round of applause. Michael, great work. Qualifications? Scrabble rules. Last one. Matt Leatherhead. Question or answer? Yeah. It's about waking up stiff in the morning. James. Yeah, all right. All right, Matron. Why do you wake up with a stiff neck after you've sweat? Slept in a draught. Right, okay. So if you go outside and it's freezing cold, what does your body do? It tenses up and when you tense up, your muscles spasm. So if your neck is exposed to cold air. Qualifications on painter and decorator. Brilliant. Well played, Matt. Cheers, James. Derek, take care, mate. Give me. Good mistake. That's it for another day. Do it all again tomorrow from ten. Next voice.