Harvey is James' no.1 fan - 4 Feb 16

Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is upon as your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction routinely denied anywhere else. I also make you a couple of cast iron promises this hour that you won't find replicated anywhere else on your radio dial. The first is that by 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now. You will. I'll say that again, you will know more than you do now. May not be knowledge you're particularly grateful for or ever find any useful whatsoever, but in terms of quantity, you'll have more of it by 01:00 today than you do now. And also, this isn't quite cast iron, but it's still pretty reliable. You're probably going to laugh out loud at some point between now and 01:00. And if you don't believe me, there's only one way to prove me wrong. Stay tuned and don't laugh. It is the radio equivalent of those newspaper features that you are familiar with, I'm sure. The notes and queries, the Q and A's where one reader will write in with a question, a who or why, a what, a where, a whence, a whither, even the occasional where. And another reader will write in a few days later with the answer, well, we tend to do things a little more immediately here. This is the original interactive media, you know, isn't it? Everybody bangs on about interactive media and how important it is. What the heck is a radio show with a phone line if it's not the emblem, the very distillation, the essence of interactive media. So you ring in with a question, someone else rings in with the answer. There are only two rules, and they are repetition and dullness. Both to be avoided at all costs. Repetition. You can't really be blamed for dullness. You probably can. So if you're thinking of a question and you're toying with the idea of dialing that number, be sure that it's a question to which other people will be interested in the answer. That I hope, is fairly self explanatory. It's a question about your laundry. It's unlikely that the rest of the nation, or indeed the 44 million people now able to listen to Mister Er on British Airways in flight entertainment, are going to share your interest in the answer. It's a question specific to a roundabout at the bottom of your road. It's unlikely that anybody else, let alone everybody else, is going to be interested in in your answer. Repetition. We'll deal with apart from that, anything goes. Only do one origin of a phrase a week. We'll probably get one up fairly early, so don't ring in with one of those too early. And that, I think, is it. I'm just trying to think if I've missed anything. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. And I think we'll just crack on, shall we? Sam's in Liverpool. Sam. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. Oh, hang on, I forgot one other rule. One other rule is if you hear someone else ask a question, you're not allowed to look up the answer. It has to come from your knowledge. It's a celebration of enlightenment, of knowledge, of education. Right. Sorry, Sam. Back to you, mate. No worries. It's an important rule. There's been too much googling. Sometimes you're too right. Yeah. So, yeah, I read somewhere that spider silk per inch is as strong as steel. But it made me think, what is the strongest substance made by animals? Is it spider silk or something else? I like that. Shouldn't you be doing something else? I'm in university at the moment, but I've got a few hours between. That's what I was hinting at, actually. I thought that you probably had lectures that you should be attending, but instead you're sitting at home going, wow, is there anything stronger than spider silk? A student writes. Well, instead I'm sitting at home listening to mister hour. Is there anything wrong with that? No, of course there isn't. You'll learn more here than you will at university. Isn't it. Is it silkworms that make the strongest silk rather than spiders? I don't know. I mean, I know they make like shirts and stuff, but. Well, no, don't make shirts, they make thread. Yeah, you find me a worm. You find me a worm that can make you a shirt, mate, and I'll be on dragons Den by this time next week. We'll be millionaires. We'll be millionaires by March. Okay. Of course you will get a cut. Let's find out. What is the strongest man made? Fiber? I like that question. No, no animal made non man made. So made by a creature. Yeah. So you would include dolphin spit or something like that. Anything. But it's got to be made by a living creature and it's. Yes. What's the strongest creature? Non man creature made? Substance. Yeah. All right. Eight minutes after twelve. There you go. Eden is in East Finchley, which is something I've ever heard of East Finchley before, but I'm prepared to take your word for it. Eden. What? Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Congratulations on the ratings, James, as well. Wow. You must be very happy with yourself. Well, I usually am. Eden. That's what they'll tell you. Carry on. So if you found an island that was previously uninhabited, how many generations of the peoples that then habited the island would it take for them to be considered indigenous? Oh, blimey. So if you've got. So if you and I. If you and I arrive, and we'd need some women as well, wouldn't we? For reasons that I hope are obvious, we turn up to build a new Eden. Eden? Yes. We turn up on perhaps an isolated greek island. There's quite a lot of uninhabited greek islands. They're for sale. Okay, but you've made it greek. But better if it doesn't have a nation, because. Right, so a theoretical, unattributed island that rose out of the sea because of a volcano. Ah. So it's recently risen out of the sea. Recent island. It's a brand new island. It's in international waters. Still got the wrapper on. And. And we go and live there. Without. Without. Wouldn't our children. Our children would be indigenous, wouldn't they? Immediately. Yeah. Immediately, yeah. So after one generation, our children. And then consider indigenous. But then if you arrive at a land that's previously inhabited, you can't be. So you're saying that by the very first dint of one. One set. I'm not sure. Nor am I. Now. Now you've said it like that. Well, I mean, because, of course, what you're doing is applying it to islands that are inhabited, and you're thinking, well, you're not indigenous if your parents came here, are you? I mean. No, no, obviously. So it has to be a completely uninhabited island. So, I mean, I don't want to make it political, but we could consider our Falkland island as indigenous is where the idea comes from originally. Yeah. This is a brilliant question. It may not have an answer. Some of the best questions don't. Yeah, fair enough. But. But in terms of know, though. Yeah. I've avoided looking anywhere for this. I thought of it last week when I only phoned up. But would there be any example of it? Well, yes, they would. The Falklands were uninhabited, weren't they? They're colonized by us. So indigenous are their children. 200 years. If they're the first people there. If they are the first people on that land. I've just got to tell you, Eden, I think Jane. Jane's been in touch to say thank you. She has just laughed out loud already. So that's her guarantee. Swan. Guarantee delivered. So it would have to be, because otherwise there's no such thing. You can never be indigenous if you've arrived in a country where other people were before you. Maybe because they involved in Africa. So they'd be the only example of indigenous peoples. Unless the Indians did aborigine. Aborigine people across the world. But no, in terms of. If you. If you're newly arrived on a landmass, if it's already inhabited, you can never be indigenous. No, no. I love this question. But if there is an answer to it, Eden, I shall give you the money myself. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time, the strongest substance created by living creatures. And if you arrive on an uninhabited island and you decide to live there, are you indigenous? Are your children indigenous? Are your grandchildren? It goes to show. And this is where Eden said he didn't want to get political. Anybody who employs the word indigenous in the context of a conversation is almost by definition daft. Unless they're a sort of evolutionary biologist or an explorer. But usually it's a. It's a way of trying to say, I've got more rights than you've got because I'm indigenous. It's astonishing how few people who use the word indigenous in the context of a political debate can spell it. Charles is in Stockport. Whereabouts in Stockport, Charles? Well, actually, Glossop. Well, in fact, broad bottom. I don't know broad bottom, but I know birch Vale. How far is that from you? Not far away. I lived there when I was two. Used to go swimming at Glossop baths and we'd go for a toasted tea cake afterwards with my late dad. Anyway, that's not why you rang. In question or answer? Question. It's one. Why are the two words flammable and inflammable? Why do they mean exactly the same, have exactly the same meaning? For example, visible and invisible are opposite. Plausible, implausible, fallible, infallible. Yeah, we could be here a while. I take your central points, Flemmel. If you were learning English and someone said, that's very flammable over there, then they saw a sign saying something was inflammable, they'd assume it was the opposite. Well, they would, but thankfully, any pictures that. Any signs that say inflammable also have a little picture of some flames on them, don't they? Yeah, but where does it come from? That's what I want to know, because I can't think of any other two words that are spelt in a similar way like that, that mean the same thing? Nor can I. Is it not something to do with flames inflamed, so you can be flamed and inflamed and they mean the same thing? Could be, I suppose. I don't know. I don't know that there's going to be an answer to this question. You want a why? For something that's probably just an accident of verbal etymological evolution. Someone who's into english language, whatever they call themselves, may know word experts. All right, I'll see what I can do. Why do flammable and inflammable mean the same thing? Yep. Thank you, Charles. Give my regards to Birch Vale. I will. And on that bombshell. See ya. See ya. James is in Hoddeston. Question or answer, James? Um. I've got an answer. Go on, then. Um. The hardest naturally occurring substance in nature. Go on, keep it. Keep it clean. Keep it clean, James. Keep it clean. It's limited. Not listening to me at all. Go on. No, it's all right. I've spoiled it now. I was trying to be funny and I've made a complete mess of your answer. Let's. Let's pretend that never happened and start again. What is the hardest known substance occurring in nature? Limpet tooth. The tooth of a limpet. Yeah. Qualifications? Um. I watch a lot of nature programs and it was on one of them, it'd be the enamel on the tooth. Would it? Yeah. Well, yeah, I just remember it being. Yeah, limpid teeth. I guess it. Yeah, the enamel on the teeth, I like that. That'd be the hardest. But you couldn't make. You couldn't make a thread out of it, could you? I have no idea. The strongest. Is there a tension? Can you actually compare hardness to tensile strength? I wonder if you can. You probably can. I don't know. I'm going to give you a round of applause, James, that's a beautiful answer. And the reason I like your answer, particularly, is it reminds younger listeners of how much you can learn simply by watching television. Yeah, yeah. It's 1250. Good work. Might be room for. I don't know. I mean, hardness and toughness are not necessarily the same thing. More of this after this with James O'Brien on LBC, 90 minutes after twelve. Inflammable and indigenous, two questions still on the board revolve around those two words. Why does inflammable mean the same as flammable? I think I've answered that, but I've got a spare round of applause going for someone else? If we arrived together, you and I, if you're a lady on an uninhabited island at what point would we become indigenous? Would we have to have children? Would you have to be born there to be indigenous? Or would we be automatically indigenous? Bearing in mind that it's uninhabited, if it's already inhabited I don't think you could ever be indigenous. Which goes to show what a pointless word it is. But it's still a very good question. Barry is in Hillingdon. Barry. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Barry. When I die, I want to be cremated. Okay. And I'm just wondering, is it obligatory or is there a law that I have to have a coffin? Couldn't I not just have a body bag? Cheaper. Yeah, I suppose it would be a lot cheaper. I mean, it might be a bit of a. Be a bit of a task for the pallbearers. I suppose they could do a fireman's lift, couldn't they? Or something like that. Or they could carry you in like cat's cradle. Is this a serious inquiry, Barry? Are you quite parsimonious or have you fallen on hard times? No, but I mean, I've inquired about funerals and they cost a fortune. Why have a coffin when it's going to be burnt? It's a very good question. Have you ever seen the film the wizard of Oz? Yes. Do you remember that bit near the end where Toto the dog pulls the curtain back and you see the wizard behind pulling all the levers and doing all that sort of thing? Yes, I remember that. I'm about to do the equivalent of that with you, Barry. I hope you don't mind. I'm going to pull back the curtain of the radio production process and tell you that sometimes before a caller comes on the producer and I have a quick chat about what might transpire during the course of the forthcoming conversation. And the producer reports to me that a very charming sounding lady was in the background when you first came through to the studio saying, oh, Barry, don't ask such a stupid question. Is this true? Probably my wife. Is your wife free at the moment to talk to me? Yes, I think she is. May I ask her name first? Marcella. Marcella. May I have a quick word with Marcella? Just a minute. Thank you very much, Mary. Okay, what's a word that you, dear? Yes, I did say Marcella, yes. What's he playing at? I don't know. I think he's serious. Really? I said to him, for heaven's sake, leave it. They're stupid. They don't have bags with people in them. Could you imagine a body bag coming into the church or the crematorium? Honestly, Marcella, I surprised you. I'm surprised you let him use the phone unchaperoned. I'm smaller than he is. Is that what it is? No. I did ask him. I've had this for about a week. He's been bothering him for a week. I have a body bag. Something cheap. He goes off on Tanner. God bless you both. I will find out. But if push comes to shove, then I will deliver the answer in the course of the program. But I just wanted you to know that we feel your pain, Marcella. Thank you very much. And it pains sometimes. Okay. God bless. Goodbye. Cheerio. We do our best. Thank you, Barry. Thank you, Marcella. Can you get cremated in a bag? Zero. 345-606-0973 it's 23 minutes after twelve. Clifford is in Hampstead. Clifford, question or answer? Question, please, sir. Carry on. Clifford. Who designed the layout of a QwERTy keyboard? And when they were doing it, did they realize that you could spell the word typewriter on the top line? You. I think you asked a question that doesn't have an answer because it. It's to do with the frequency of how often letters. Do you remember when typewriters had hammers? Yes. And the danger of the hammers sticking? Yes. Do you remember? Sometimes. So the way it's designed is linked to the frequency of the letters and how far away the ones that you use the most need to be from each other in order to minimize the likelihood of hammer sticking, if that is the case. I didn't know that. Well, you do now. I do. I'm a wiser man for speaking to you. Well, that was. That was only one of the promises I made at 12:00 today. I don't know if you've laughed out loud yet, but frankly, I was going to say if you didn't laugh out loud with Marcella. Yeah. I'm going home. I give up. Now. Whether or not any. Whether or not the name of the person who designed it has been recorded, I do not know. But I'm 99% confident that the ability to find all the letters in the word typewriter on the top line alone is a coincidence. I'll leave the question on the board. But I think. I think. I think that's probably as good an answer as you're going to get. It's the best I can take. Then. Good man. Thank you, Clifford. I shall do my best. Richard's in Paddington. Richard. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. You're very welcome. Flammable. Inflammable. I thought about. I was thinking that maybe it's got to do with the proximity of the flame to the actual substance, because you have flammable, inflammable and highly inflammable. So when you're close, very close, and you need to contact it, it would be flammable? Maybe. And. Or maybe it's the reverse. If the flame is further away, it's inflammable. And if it's even further away, it's highly inflammable. So it's just because of the nature of flame and the nature of combustion that we have inflammable not being the opposite, just degrees of flammability. I like your answer, but it's almost certainly wrong. God. Well, I mean, it just. There's no way that you've suddenly discovered the notion of gradations of flammability while sitting in your car in Paddington? No, no, I haven't discovered it. It's a non brainer. It's not a non brainer, it's a non writer. It's not flammable. And inflammable mean exactly the same thing. They mean they possess a propensity to catch fire. Absolutely. So. So they're not the same word as the chap was suggesting. They are the same word. Okay. What's more inflammable or flammable? What has a higher degree of flammability? Something that's inflammable. Or something that's flammable. Okay, if you put it that way, it's a different question. It's a different question, Richard. Carry on. I look forward to your second call. Now you've overcome your first night nerves. 1225 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Call me now if you know why flammable and inflammable mean exactly the same thing. If you know whether or not what generation of newly arrived inhabitants on a previously uninhabited landmass would become defined as indigenous. Can Barry get cremated without a coffin? I don't like that question. Not now we've met. Marcella. He's upset her. There. I can see why. Barry, you cheeky old soul. And who invented the Qwerty keyboard? Zero. 345-606-0973 Nicole's in Poplar. Question or answer? Nicole. Yes, I've got a question. Carry on. Good. So my parents in law have a dog and she howls along to opera singing. Specifically, I've heard her howling to sopranos. And also every now and then when the phone rings and I'm wondering why. Is this some sort of packed instinct? Does it hurt her ears? Is it something else? Is it not just that they think that other dogs are howling? It's because I've got a dog and if the dog next door howls, our dog joins in sometimes. Right. So it's just. Would be a pact instinct. Yes. Would it be the same thing with upper singing or the thumb? Yes, it is. The note that is struck musically somehow resonates with the canine brain as evidence of another canine in the proximity. Ergo, they howl in order to make canine contact. Okay, so it's more about the note and less about the source of the note. Oh, you see, when you say it back to me properly, like a grown up, I realize that I've been making it up as I went along. Well, I don't know the answer. So why does your. Why do your in laws. Why does your in law dog howl at the opera? Yeah. Cool. That's nice. No, you're on. Well, I think I'm probably right, but then I usually do and I'm often not, so we'll leave it on the board until we go definitive, Nicole, thank you. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that or any of the other questions. Lucy makes a point. I don't know that we need to stress this. I would hope, Lucy, that Marcella realised that we were laughing with her. Very much so and very much not at her. I'm sure she realised that already. But if you think it needed clarification, I would rather adopt the belt and braces approach than cross my fingers and hope for the best. Chichester. Hello, Dave. Hello, James. How are you doing? I mustn't grumble, mate. What have you got? Question or answer? I've got a question this time. Please carry on. And I've got my little boy. Billy's with me. He's off sick today. Mine's off sick today as well. Is it, Tommy? No. Chicken pox. Oh, good Lord. Blimey. Yeah, tough. It's only a mild case. He's fine. He's not too bad. Billy has a hobby. He goes around finding money that people have dropped on the floor and he collects it and puts it in a jar. That's a hobby now, is it? It was a crime when I was a kid. Honestly. All right. You can't keep them away. Isn't that what the artful Dodger used to do in Oliver Twist. Where'd you get that? I found it on the floor, dad. Course you did, Billy. What's the. What's the running total now? How much have you got now, Billy? 19 pounds. Oh, he's poorly. He is poorly. He is poorly, yeah. 19 pounds already. Yeah. He's got 19 pounds. 20 already. And he'll pick up any denomination of coin, Willie. That's the point. He does not care. You know, there's coin machines in Sainsbury's. People change. He's worked out that. That's where people drop money. So he's. He's on his. He's on his belly every time he gets the stage because his hand underneath him to work early. What's the question, then? The question is, Billy would like to know that if he picked up. If he was able to pick up all the money that people have dropped in Britain, how much would he have? We could have worked that out. Come on. Someone from the bank of England. But it's already more than it was when you asked the question. Someone's just dropped 20 p in Kidderminster. Exactly. So what would I. What do you want from me? I can't. What do you want? Some sort of meter, like children in need? It keeps going up every 10 seconds. No, I didn't think of that. You're absolutely right. Well, thank you very much. You're saying such a bad example to your boy. It's not enough he's got chicken pox, now he's losing his hero worship of his father, ringing up radio stations with stupid questions. You're no father of mine. Hey, James, you know, you say that when you keep ringing up with stupid questions, ever. It's not a stupid. Is that. Is there an estimate on the amount of money that is lost every year? Let's do it like that. Exactly. Yeah. There you go. That's the sound of me getting you out of a hole, Dave. Fantastic. Thank you very much. I appreciate. Carry on and get well soon, Billy. It's 12:30. Two, one. Why do flammable and inflammable mean exactly? We've got some cracking questions this week. Some of them possibly aren't going to be answerable. Why deflammable and inflammable mean exactly the same thing? When would you become indigenous? If you and I, or if a couple, a male and a female, arrived on a previously uninhabited landmass, say an island, just sort of come up out of the sea as a result of an underwater sub aquatic volcanic explosion, at what point would they become indigenous to that land mass. Would they be indigenous themselves? Would their children be indigenous? I think it's going to end up. It was Eden's question from East Finchley. I think it's going to end up being an illustration of what a meaningless word that is, is politically, but it is interesting, historically or biologically. Is Barry allowed to get cremated without a coffin? He wants to get cremated in a bag. I've lost the tweet, so I can't give you the credit you deserve for this. Someone's pointed out you can get a bag for life, so why not a bag for death? That's what Barry wants to know. Who invented the Qwerty keyboard? Why do dogs howl to the opera? Why does one dog in particular howl to the opera? And have we any idea how much money gets lost? We're just going to say every year, loose change, back of the sofa stuff. How much money do we lose every year? Can anyone. No one's going to know that off the top of their head, are they? Who would know that? I don't know. Sarah's in Perryville. Question or answer, Sarah? Answer. Carry on. The flammable and inflammable question. Yes. I'm old enough to remember when the only word was inflammable. When I was a kid, that was the only word that was used. Yes, but people started in more recent times, misunderstanding inflammable meaning thinking it meant it couldn't be set on fire, so they actually changed it on all labels to flammable to make people understand that it was about to go up in date. And therefore the two. The two words mean exactly the same thing with inflammable predating flammable and meaning possessed of a propensity to become inflamed. Exactly, yes. You're very good qualifications. Well, I lived long enough to remember when it came in. And is there a stronger qualification than that on this earth, Sarah? Probably not. Probably not. Hang on, I think Barry's might. Barry's in Norway. Are you going along with that barrier? No, not at all. Okay, Sarah. Barry, wait there a second. Sarah. Yeah, you're gonna get a round of applause. I'm just gonna indulge Barry for a couple of minutes. All right, Barry, back to you, mate. What was wrong with that, then? You know, as a gentleman, I'll just give Sarah a round of applause, because I'm just a gentleman like that. But they do mean different things. They don't. They do. They don't. Yeah. Flammable is something you can set to light. Yeah. All right, so you can burn a piece of material. Inflammable is something that will light itself. It will set a light on its own. It's volatile. No, it's not. I've done. I learned. Yes, it is. And I've learned this. I've learned this because I did a fire safety course when I was working British Rail many years ago. Mate, that's not going to bar any parsnips here. A fire safety course at British Rail, flammable and inflammable mean exactly the same thing. So you can take your british railway safety course and I will raise you a dictionary. What are you going to go with? The dictionary or the British Rail safety course that you vaguely remember from a few years ago? No, no, it's not vague. It's not vague. I'll ask you again, mate. What are you going to put your trust in the dictionary or your british rail fire safety course from a few years ago? Some substances can burn on their own. They don't need ignition in that same way. That's true. Some stuff needs ignition. All right. The stuff that needs ignition is flammable. It doesn't become any less wrong the more you say it. Do you know what? What? I'm a j. I'll just give it a round of applause. Trying to claim it's chivalry. Sarah is getting a round of applause because she is correct. You are getting your sandwiches wrapped in a roadmap because you are incorrect, Sarah. Accept this with my compliment. Honestly. Thank you. Thank you. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can grab either of those phone lines that have just been vacated. Simon is in Finchley. Question or answer, Simon. I've got an answer, James. Hang on, I'm just going to cross out that one, because that was a beautiful answer by Sarah. Yes. What is your answer? Is the answer to the money on the street. And funnily enough, I've got a little boy who's sick at home as well. Really? It's a lot of it about today. What's wrong with your. What's wrong with your lad? Unspecified fever. Any vomiting? No. Vomiting? No. Just as well, then. We had full vomiting last night after saying, well, why don't you get into bed with us? It's not a mistake you make twice in one evening. Carry on, Simon, with your. With your answer to the. To the question. There's a bit of. A bit of guesswork and something I heard. So, basically work for a company. And the boss told us once that we needed to make more money because every day, 25,000 pounds is dropped on the street in loose change. And he read it somewhere very important. He was. You weren't on a british rail safety course, were you, when you had this conversation? No. All right, carry on. Anyway, so I calculated from that, 25,000 pounds per day times 365, if we're. We're working out that way, is roughly 9 million pounds. 9 million pounds. First of all, your boss made it up. Well, I don't know. Why did you say that? Well, it's just a completely random figure. Where did he get that from? He read it somewhere. He read it somewhere. I can't go definitive on he read it somewhere. And also, I reckon there'd be a lot less dropped on a Sunday than there would be on a weekday. Okay, so let's take off the Sundays. You're not getting a round of applause because of your boss. Your boss just made it. Was he? What was he trying to get you to do? Sell more stuff. Sorry? Was he? Was your boss trying to get you to sell more stuff? No, he will not work harder. I just made it up. He said work harder because 25,000 pounds a day problem is, the more condescending I get now, the more likely I am to turn around in ten minutes, I want to call up with that 25,000 pound figure, because I'm sure it's out there. Yeah, well, if I get it, I'll ring you back. All right? All right. And then we'll see. We'll see about that. Round of applause. 25,000 pounds a day gets dropped. Where'd you get that number from? It must have come from somewhere. Or did it? Lawrence is Inisha Lawrence, question or answer? It's a question. And good afternoon to you, James. Hello, Lawrence. How are you? Fine, you? Yeah. I mustn't grumble. Mustn't grumble. That's right. Well, you've had some great questions, so good week. How about this? Go on. I've just bought myself a new hi fi system with a turn table and amplifier and speakers. Yeah. Welcome to the 20th century, Lawrence. And therefore, I've had to buy some vinyl albums. Yes. But I don't know whether to stir to store them vertically or lay them flat to prevent the things warping. So are to avoid warpage. Yeah, warping. I think it isn't it. Warpage. So do I store a record vertically or do I lay it flat? There's an awful lot of people buying these things now. Vinyls on the way back? Like you would not believe. So I'm told. And you notice the difference, actually, you notice. I'm not sure whether it's in the eye of the. Or the ear of the beholder. The ear of the beholder, Lawrence, you rascal. Very nice. Um, I mean, everyone I know has always stored them vertically. But why? It's quite a good question. It's not the best question we've ever had. No. I think the Barry in the bag is amazing. It's just unbelievable, isn't it? Your qualifications were in dentistry, weren't they, back in the day? You're right, yeah. So you're not going to know about the rules governing cremation and vessels? Well, actually, there is a problem when you cremate someone and all the mercury in their teeth goes up the chimney. Oh, they would be. And creates pollution. It's not a massive problem. Oh, I think it's becoming one. Really? Yeah, yeah. Everywhere you turn now, this course of concern. You're like a human daily mail, Lawrence. Well, 42 years in dentistry, dear. Yes. You can't say fairer than that. Goodbye, sir. I shall find out for you. Should Lawrence store his vinyl horizontally or vertically? He is concerned with the avoidance of warpage. Right, I'm coming in now. Okay. I promised you at 12:00 today you would laugh out loud between then and 01:00. And if you haven't, if you've actually been listening and you haven't laughed out loud yet, you're banned from the rest of the show. All right? Because you're such a misery guts. I frankly don't want to be spending any more time with you. Katya is in Grantham. Kathia. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. About the cremation. You have to put. Well, if you're a cremation technician, you have to put the body in a really flammable container, you know, so that it goes really quickly. If you like kindling, the coffin would be like. Kindling. Who's kindling? Kindling is like the little twigs you put in the fire in order to get the big twigs burning. Yes. Like them? Just like that. Yes. A bag. It doesn't do it. A paper bag would. Oh, yes. Okay. So we could put Barry in a paper. I don't want to talk about Barry, because Marcella will be listening to this and she'll be getting all upset while Barry's sitting there chuckling away. You goat, Barry. Now, there would be a problem with the paper bag, because he has to at some point, I don't really know when, but he has to look at what's happening in the oven. And he would see quite not so beautiful shapes of the bodies. No, but that's. That's not a pretty sight, I grant you, but that's not really Barry's problem. He's going to be beyond caring about that by the time he goes up in flames. What are your qualifications on this? I did some research because I want to know what's going to happen to me when I get created. Yes. Yeah. And I thought just like very. Oh, well, just have a bag in there, you know, and then. Yeah, well, I don't know that. I don't. I just. I mean, the temperature inside those crematoriums is so huge. I can't really believe that the wood is necessary to the combustion process. And it must be quite a certain type of wood as well. I've seen people. I've heard of people being cremated in wickerwork coffins, wicker coffins and cardboard coffins. And. Yeah, some of them are going to be not allowed anymore, actually, because of CO2 emissions. Oh, hang on, I've got someone on the other line who used to work for a funeral company. Do you want to stay on the line in case you end up sharing the applause? Okay. Okay. Katya, say hello to Mike. Hello, Mike. Hi, Mike. Mike, what have you got? Yeah, the reason why you can't just be burned in a bag is because basically, there's a couple of reasons. First of all, the first one is hygiene. Um, might be a very clean bag when. When the coffin enters the, uh, the cremator, um, obviously it's that hot inside the cremator that it would start burning straight away. Um, if you throw someone in there in a rubbish bag, you would. So, cat. So Katia's wrong. It says it's. Yeah, okay. All right. I'm just going to get rid of her, mate. You stay there for a second. Katia, on. On your jog. Nothing in this game. Carry on, Mike. Yes. So, first of all, it's hygiene reasons. That's the first thing. The second thing as well is crematoriums are regulated as to what gases they put into the air when they conduct cremations. And therefore, you can't just put a rubbish bag in there, something like that, because of the environmental factors. So it has to be something which, such as wood, won't cause as much as an impact as burning rubber or burning plastic. So conceivably, if you could find a sustainable, eco friendly, sturdy bag, you could do it. But we're not yet aware of one's existence. Yeah, exactly. But again, if it was something that was going to melt as soon as you start pushing it into the cremator, you wouldn't get the person all the way into the cremator without going into detail. I think you just did, Mike. It's too late now, mate. You've just gone into detail. Everyone's now got an image of. Oh, lordy. Qualifications. Michael, I used to work for a funeral arrangement company. Okay. Why did you stop? Just change the job. It was a dead end job. You know, I said that I was trying to think of a punchline myself, but I thought, I'll leave it to Mike, because he's probably heard them all before. Round of applause for mike, please. Thank you very much. It's a dead end job. It's 27. Seven minutes remaining of mystery hour and several questions still in need of answers. Some of them. I'm not going to lie to you, some of these questions are a bit rubbish. Some of that. Some of them are mildly interesting. I think the best ones have already been answered. Namely, whether or not Barry is allowed to get cremated in a bag. It would appear not, Barry. But don't be too downcast. If you can invent a bag that is fulfilling all of the environmental requirements, it may still be that you could do that. We shall have to wait to find out who invented the QWERTY keyboard. A dog howl along to the opera. And at what point would you become indigenous? If you and I arrived upon an uninhabited island and we were able to procreate together, would our children be indigenous to that uninhabited island? Would we be? Or would you have to wait for subsequent generations to arrive at that state? Richard is an Eastbourne. Richard, question or answer? Question, please. Thanks. Carry on, Richard. Congratulations on the latest Reagan's, by the way, as well. Come off it, mate, will you? A little bit of modesty goes a long way. Come on, James. When one drops a. Say, for example, a coke can, and it fizzes up, why do we tap the top of it? Does that actually work? Yes. How do you know? Because it. Because I've done it. What's the science behind it? It is. It's all about osmosis. Wait. Waiting for the jingle. You encourage the bubbles to the top of the can. No, I know. I was joking. You encourage the bubbles to the top of the liquid so that when you open the ring pool, the gas comes out. Whereas if the gas remains within the liquid, when you open the ring pool, the gas rushes to the surface and takes the liquid with it. Ergo, your cup runneth over. Richard, I'm going to give you that one. Every time I bring up a question, you always answer it. Does that not have the vaguest patina of plausibility? I'd like to hear from someone else. All right, then. We haven't heard from Professor Hal today. He was unhappy about one of the earlier answers, but it's still time for him to squeeze himself in before 01:00. Richard, mind how you go. Harvey is in East Queenston. Harvey, question or answer? Question. James. How old are you, Harvey? I'm twelve. Why aren't you at school? Because I'm ill. There is so much. What's wrong with you? My little girl's got a tummy bug. What have you got? I've got like, headache, sore throat. Yeah. Oh, man. Well, at least you're well enough to ring in. What do you want to know? And also, I just want to say this now, I'm a big fan. I listen to all the podcasts. Oh, Harvey. Thank you, my friend. What a lovely thing to say. When I grow up, I want to be just like you. Carry on. My question is, your Neptune is completely made up of gas. I didn't know that, but I take your word for it. How come it can orbit around the sun if it's just a big ball of gas? How can it have a planetary orbit? Yeah, I like that question. How long have we got left? Four minutes. Right, free up some phone lines. Harvey needs an answer. Harvey, leave it with me. I hope you feel better soon, mate, I really do, but I'll try and get you an answer, just to put a smile back on your face. Let's get an answer for how is Neptune. Come on, interplanetary experts, how is Neptune able to orbit, given that it is just a massive ball of gas? Speaking of massive balls of gas, I'll be back on air tomorrow morning at 10:00 Colin is in Sandy in Bedfordshire. Colin, question or answer? Honest air. James. What a lovely quality phone line. Colin, talk to me some more. Tell me some poems. I won't tell you the poems that I made, but there we go. All right then, go on, what have we got? When I was a young man, many, many years ago, and I lived in barking, and my neighbor four doors down was a chap called Mike Smith, who was a record producer for the tremolo, Georgie fame and Marmalade, among others. And I was always in his house for some reason or another, and on his wall he had all his gold discs as a producer for them. I think he was with CB's. Okay, but on his opposite wall, he had shelving with thousands of albums on those shelves and they were all stacked upright. And I said to him, vertically? Vertically? Yes. I said, is that the. Is that. I said, why do you do them upright? And he said, because if you put them on the floor, he said, they will warp. And I used to keep all my albums on the floor. Horizontally? Yes, horizontally, if they're in shelves. Yes. Then you need to have something at either end to hold them tightly in and then you're bound to be right, aren't you? Yes. And they were, they were beautiful and they were all in. And of course, the other thing is, is that the names of the, the albums were on the. Or on the side, so you could actually pull them out a lot easier, because, I mean, it was tempting to think originally that weight would minimize warpage if you kept them horizontally. But of course, vertically is. It has the benefit of weight as long as they're tightly packed. Yes. And that was it. And from then on, I never kept my albums on the floor horizontally. They always went on shelves. What a time to be alive. Colin, give a round of applause for Colin. Thank you. Oh, no. I snorted Richard's inaction. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Richard. It better be for Harvey. Have you got, have you got an answer for Harvey? Yes, Neptune. Good, good man. Bring it on. Right. Neptune probably has a very small, rocky, nickel iron core, but is surrounded by a thick shell of ice thousands of miles thick. It is an ice giant. But even if it wasn't, and if it was close to the sun, the gravitational pull of all the molecules and atoms would hold it together in its spherical construction. And that is, the soundness of its spherical construction renders the orbit inevitable. Everything larger than a certain mass, I believe, will go spherical because it will bunch together at the center and gravity pulls everything together. Well, Harvey was under the impression that Neptune was just a big ball of gas. Is that just not correct? It's possibly not, but it's known as either a gas or an ice giant because most of it is either water ice, frozen methane or carbon dioxide. But it possibly has a core, a small core at the center, as does Uranus as well, Saturn, possibly in Jupiter. And Jupiter is probably so hot at the center, it cannot be fully solid. But that's debatable. Round of applause for Richard. I need to remind you, of course, that we've got together with Cancer Research UK to let you know all about World Cancer Day today. Cancer doesn't discriminate. We all know someone affected and now, one in two people will survive cancer for ten years, but cancer research wants three in four people surviving cancer by the year 2034. So do wear your unity band and donate today. Search online for cancer research UK. Together, we can beat cancer sooner. Can we squeeze in Tony and Chelsea? Can you do it in 20 seconds or is it too late? We're going to do the Qwerty. It's too late. I'm not going to interfere with Sheila Fogarty's broadcasts today at all. That's it for me for another day. Some lovely comments coming in and I completely agree with you. Mystery hour is sometimes just a thing of absolute joy. Thanks to. Thanks to Barry and Marcella and everybody else. Today was one of the best. It'll be rubbish next week, no doubt. We'll do everything again tomorrow from ten on LBC. And here is Sheila Fogarty. I think mister.