Can you watch your eyes move - 17 Mar 16

Three minutes after twelve. A little mention for Donny, who's listening in Tulum in Mexico, where it's just turned 07:00 in the morning. Yeah, alright, mate. No one likes a show off. The rest of us, however, confined to our more quotidian experiences, now gather to worship at the altar of knowledge. This is your weekly opportunity to get an answer to the question that has had you puzzled for the longest time. It's a weekly venture into the unknown. It comes with two guarantees. One is that you will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. Might not be knowledge you're grateful for, but I promise you, you'll know more than you do now. And the second promise I've made recently, and it hasn't been broken yet, is that you'll have a proper laugh out loud moment at least once between now and close of play. But I need your questions first. If you already know what you're doing, hit the numbers. Now, if you don't know what you're doing, bear with me one moment. This is the radio equivalent of the magazine and newspaper features whereby a reader will write in with a question, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's this, what's that? Where, when, why? Whither, wherefore, whence you think of an interrogative pronoun, I'll clumsily work it into an example question and you ask that question on air. Someone else knows the answer, they ring in and provide it. Okay, two rules. Very, very polite rules, but I suppose the imposition can be a little impolite sometimes. Don't be boring. Never be boring. Don't be dull. Seriously, don't ring in with a dull question about miles to the gallon or fuel economy or roundabouts. Some dull questions might not be about motoring, but historically, the motoring questions lend themselves to the accusation of dullness most readily. So don't be dull and try to avoid repetition. That's more my fault than yours because I'm here every week. You're not necessarily, and I can't remember every single mystery that's ever unfolded. You can get a little bit of help from the LBC website where there's a very diverting and often very amusing archive of questions that we have dealt with on mysteryout. But it's not necessarily that easy to search. So I just sort of cautiously suggest, if it's really, really, really obvious, like why don't we see baby pigeons? The chances are we have dealt with it. You know, the really obvious questions that aren't really mysteries at all. They're more like kind of figures of speech, almost, or cliches. And it is the busiest hour of the week, by far, on the radio station, certainly on this show, but it does involve quite a lot of churn. So quite a lot of people who ring in will be politely invited to ring off again because they have fallen foul of the dullness or the repetition rules. And that means that even if you don't get through right now, it doesn't mean you wouldn't get through. For example, right now, it's judicious use of redo. I really need these fingers. Yeah. It's judicious use of redo that will deliver you the greatest chance of getting through. That's what people who manage to get through quite often tell me when I hear from people who complain that they try desperately to get through every week and never succeed, I think, should we crack on now? I think that's pretty much it. If you're new to it, you'll get a flavor of what is going on if you're listening on the podcast. And it's astonishing how many people do now, whether on a British Airways flight or whether you've just downloaded it yourself from. There's an archive, by the way, available at the website or at iTunes. You can download loads and loads and loads of mystery hours from the past. Quite useful to know that with the holiday season coming up, long journeys and what have you. But I've tried and failed, largely through forgetting to include a question for podcast listeners that's been submitted via Twitter previously and this week, thanks to Simon, I've actually managed to remember one. I don't know if you're a podcast listener, I suspect you're not. But the question's really good and it tallies with a lot of what's been going on in my home at the moment. Is it possible to have two colds at once? So that's your starter for ten this morning, because I'm pretty sure my eldest has now got two illnesses at the same time. She's kind of got a virus and then she's got a cough on top of it. Is it possible to have two colds at once? That's your starter for ten on Twitter mystery app. But the rest, every other call, every other question and every answer will have to be submitted via phone 034-560-6097 minutes after twelve is the time Nick is at Newmarket. Nick, question or answer? It's a question, funny enough, and I hope you're doing well today. I'm doing very well. How are you? Yes, all good. It's Grand national week this week, and I've had a bit of a flutter, but I haven't quite won enough to retire yet. It's the Cheltenham Gold cup, mate, not the Grand national. Oh, sorry. Yes, that's what I meant. Oh, good. All right. Well, I hope you were a little bit more. Paid a bit more attention to detail before you placed your bet, Nick. Yes. My question is horse related. Yes. I just wondered why the height or the size of a horse is measured in hands where that derived from. And, you know, is it literally a hand, in which case, you know, all hands are different sizes. It's nowhere near as mysterious as you think it is. Although I think the fact that it's going to deliver me my first round of applause of the week is quite satisfying. It wouldn't have been just horses when it started. It's ancient Egypt, I think we've done it before. It certainly filed away in my brain somewhere. A hands breadth, as it were. There's some dispute over whether it included the thumb or whether it was just the fist. But men's hands are surprisingly similar size, Donald Trump notwithstanding. So if you were just simply trying to, you know, before we wrote things down, even in pre literacy, you were trying to communicate verbally the size of something to somebody else. You talk about a hand span, how many hand spans it was. I think it's in the Bible as well. Right, okay. Well, in which case, grab yourself. One of these can happen. And I don't know why. It's. It's. It's now confined chiefly to horses, but I imagine because it just hasn't had to. Hasn't had to evolve in any way. Richard is in Bexley. Question or answer, Richard. It's a question, James, funny enough. Good man. Go on. How are you doing today? You don't. No, no, no. Your politeness is exemplary, but when one caller does it, all the other callers think they have to do the same as well. And it ends up. This is my first time mystery. I know, but the last fella said, ask me how I am. Who cares how I am? People just want your mystery, mate. They don't want your inquiries after my general good being and health. All right, then answer me this one. What happens when there's a fire in a prison? Because when I have a fire and I'll go off at work, we all get evacuated over the road to the rendezvous point. But if you do that in a prison, they're all going to run away, aren't they? No, they're not. The rendezvous point will still be within the prison gates. It'll be the exercise yard or something like that. What is it? Like a really big fire where the whole thing's like he's come down? Surely there's got some kind of a master plan to go on after? Yes, there probably is a. Yeah, go on, then. I just. I'm trying to think of anything's happened that I can think of. They go on the roof, don't they? And they have riots. But has there ever been a fire that involves the evacuation of a prison? A prison officer will know the answer to this. So what is in place? If a fire is so vigorous within a prison that there is a need for evacuation beyond prison gates, what happens? Because there's going to be time constraints there as well, isn't there? And staffing constraints. There's going to be all sorts of issues. Why are you planning a mass breakout? Not today. Are you. Are you. What's the name of the fella that we. What's the missing mastermind behind the Hatton garden raid? What was he called? Basil. Basil. Are you Basil? No. Well, you would say that, wouldn't you? I wasn't born yesterday. What? We shouldn't make light of this, but we are so tough. Richard, you're on. All right, we'll try and get you an answer to that. A prison officer, please, would know the answer. What is the sort of form for evacuation a prison in the event of a fire or similar, beyond the boundaries of the prison gates, if indeed there is such a thing. Thank you, Richard. Steve's in South Kensington. Question or answer, Steve? Question. Yes. If you look into a mirror, why can't you see your eyes move? So if you're looking. The other day I had. One of my eyes was red, and so I was looking back and forth, comparing the two eyes, but I couldn't see my eyes move. So it looks kind of like you're staring straight ahead, even though you're scanning back and forth. Are you sure about this? Well, I thought, no, this is not right. So I. Then I took a. Took my phone out and that's what I'm doing now. That's what I am actually doing now. I'm actually getting my phone out to test the theory. I've got to take it out of the hold overnight, because it. So, look straight ahead and then look right eye, left eye, back and forth, comparing the two, and you'll see it on the. On the phone, but not in the mirror. My eyes are moving, mate, there's something wrong with you. No, no, but you're looking at them. If you look at a mirror. Oh, you can't see it. Really? Yep. I haven't got a mirror. Why have I got my phone out? Have one of your assistants go to the. One of my assistants. This is. I'm not working at the BBC until later today, Steve. I don't have assistance. Army of helpers and factotums. Have we got a mirror? I would. Judging. Judging by the way mark looks today, I don't think he's been near Amir since he got up this morning. I don't know. Should we? So what? Are you sure about this? Because everyone in the car, people driving on the M 25, are just looking at every. Everyone's examining their rear view mirror at the moment in quite a dangerous fashion. You can't see your eyes move when you look in a mirror. No. You're yanking my chain, Steve. I'm not, but I'm not yanking my chain. All right, then. It's on the board. If you're yanking my chain, there'll be trouble, Yankee or otherwise. 1212 is the time. Neil's in Andover. Question or answer, Neil? Question, please. Yes, I'd like to know. When you're in a football stadium or you hear, like, a large crowd singing, it generally sounds in tune. And yet when you. If you say, chose someone at random to sing, like, the national anthem, it'd probably sound like a cat at the dentist. Yes, but, yeah. It's just when you're listening to songs in stadiums, won't it just be a majority? Just be the fact that the significant majority of the people singing are singing in tune? Possibly. But then couldn't you have the same majority singing out of tune as well? You only need to have someone near you singing in tune. And that means you will sing in tune, even if you wouldn't be able to sing in tune yourself. So when I was in the choir at school, I couldn't sing anything. But if I was standing next to the best singer in the choir, I was pretty good. Especially to be a pilgrim. Yeah, I guess. But I was thinking, because not everyone would be singing in the same key, either. So they could be singing in tune, but in a different key. Someone singing in tune, I reckon, would have a sort of ripple effect upon people who were capable of singing in tune, but not alone. So that would be part of the answer. But you want something more definitive than that, I sense. Yeah, if there is something more definitive. Yeah. Please. Sound like you might have been pretty close to it. Why do crowds full of people who can't sing in tune alone manage to sound like they're singing in tune? Yeah, yeah. So if you hear it like the national anthem on the telly or whatever, and everyone's singing in. In the crowd and, yeah, they're also good in cheap. There's a great. So I don't know why someone just sent me a photograph on Twitter of a clip from the chase with Bradley Walsh when they were asking which nationality sings this at football matches. Is it the English, the Scots or the Italians? And the song was, we're gonna deep fry your pizzas. We're gonna deep fry your pizzas. That would also be in tune. I presume the answer was Scotland. Neil. Thank you, mate. Fires in prisons, eyes in mirrors, songs in crowds. Any of those. If you can answer them, you know what to do. Zero. 345-606-0973 and yes, you're right, I did forget to tell you about the phone at the concert thing. Techno babe. And I will try to remind you, but mystery hour kind of is a bit different from the rest of the week. I'll see if I can find a way to smuggle that little nugget of information into the remaining 45 minutes or so. The time now is 12 15. 18 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The questions that are on the board at the moment include, can you get two colds at once? I've had a good answer to that, but it's via email. I should have added, you're not allowed to look stuff up when you're giving an answer. You have to know it already. And I only take answers by phone, even if the question has come in via Twitter, as this one did. Can you get two infections? Can you get two colds at the same time? What happens if there's a fire in a prison so serious they have to evacuate the prison grounds? You can't just stick all the prisoners on the exercise patch. Why? And look how many of these I've got. OMG. He's right. It's true about the rear view mirror says Priya. Barry says, he's right. I've just tried it in the mirror. You can't see them move. This is how mystery hour started. Something that's under our noses all the time. All right, eyes are above your nose, but it's a figure of speech, something that goes on all the time and we've never noticed before in life. So that questioner there saying, why, when you look in a mirror and you move your eyes. Can't you see your eyes move? It's true. Lots and lots of people have tested it. And Shaun, for example, says, I've no value to add to your program, but can concur that your eyes do appear to remain still when looking from eye to eye in the mirror. And a comedian describing himself as gunometrics on Twitter says, the mirror guy is right, James. But don't try it yourself. The mirror will smash. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. Why? Why don't your eyes appear to move? I love that one. And finally, how do crowds seem to sing in tune? Staying with jokers. Terrence is on form today. Goes that your singing in tune theory didn't seem to work with the Spice Girls. James, you nasty man. So you see what he means, though. The question, though you sing, a crowd sings. They seem to be in tune. And yet if you put the microphone on most of those individuals, I'm not sure they would actually be singing in tune at all. Harry's in Bermondsey. Harry, question or answer? Why do they call it a boxing ring when it's square? Is my question. Because when boxing started, it would just be a circle of people surrounding the fighters and it was called the ring and they just stuck with the name when they built a proper platform for it with corners. That's an interesting idea, but I've heard a few other theories and I'd like to hear somebody with the definitive answer. You just did. No, mate. Peter is in Ashford. Peter, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, then. The eye movements I saw on a science program. Yes. Experiment. Which I can't remember the details of. Well, hang on a minute. What sort of an answer is this? You're already undermining your own authority. Well, the principle they sort of deduced was that the brain actually samples what we see. We don't work like a video camera. Yes. We also have only got a very narrow, sharp focus range. And the brain actually infills, either from what we already know or what it's already seen, what's happening around the center and in between the very, very short gaps between our sampling. Our eye is kind of editing. Our brain is editing what our eyes are transmitting. Absolutely. And this is why there's a lot of problems in things like witnessing of incidents, in police investigations. Now, our memory is also. Don't overcomplicate it. So, in layman's terms, you're looking in the mirror, your eyes are moving, but your brain. No, I'm not getting enough. Does the phrase parallax effect mean anything to you? Yes, I learned that at school. Long, long time ago. What's that, then? Nor can I. You're almost describing the brain as having a refresh rate. Like a computer does. Yes, like a television screen. It's only showing the picture once every 50 times a second. Not continuously, then. Unless I'm being a bit stupid. How can I see my eyes move when I'm filming myself, then? On my phone? Well, you're not looking at it in sync in real time. You're looking at it at a different overlapping rate because your phone is working at a different sort of interval than your brain is. You sure? Well, that's a deduction. But the sampling. I'm liking this answer. Qualifications? I. A Christmas science lecture and I've read about the central. Focusing elsewhere. Do you want the good news or the bad news? The good news. Good news is I like your answer. Okay. Bad news is I got Professor Hal on the other line. I was wondering if you would. So should we see what he's got to say? Yes, please. Professor Hal is here. You've been moonlighting again, Professor Hal. You've been arguing with porno stars on other people's shows. Only at your behest, James. Well, that's true. All right, carry on. So is Peter right? I'm sorry it was more froth than it was coffee on that particular cappuccino. Shoot you down for your ludicrous figures of speech, Peter. Stay there. Because just because he's the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton doesn't mean he's infallible. Why can't we see our eyes move in the mirror? I first need to point out that one of your fans that prompted me to do this, Christy cream, said, go and answer that. So here we are. Well done, Christy. When the eye. When you look at one thing then scale across to look at another thing if you didn't have this little fallback that the brain's developed, you would be very disorientated. And if you remember NYPD blue, that cop show they used to use that the camera would swing round and see this very fast moving thing. So what happens is the brain actually momentarily hangs onto the previous image and stitches onto the next image. And there's two bits of evidence. I think that's what Peter said, though. Just not as cleverly as you. No, but I need to continue. So that's how, for example, the. What the butler saw, fairground type apparatus would work. That's how we used to see celluloid films. It was a series of different pictures, but you wouldn't see them jerk together because you were blending them into one. And the most interesting observation is, when you're on a train with someone, let them look out of the window and then watch their eyes. They will see a rolling, seamless Vista, but their eyes jerk back and forth. It's absolutely fascinating to watch it because it happens lots and lots of times per second. Stay there, Peter. Hello. What do you reckon? I think it's very similar to what I was looking at. Yeah, but with the patina of scientific authority, mate. That was just lacking from your answer. Yes. Yes. That's not my line of business. Nice. He's got you there, Hal. I don't think. I don't think the science is. Just go easy. He's not a porn star, all right? Yeah, well, you're not a porn star, Peter. Hello. Hello. You've never been involved in pornographic films, have you? No. One of my sidelines. Should we split this one down the middle? How? As you like, James. Of course. Carry on. Well done, Peter. I'm going to give you 80% of that, actually. How? You can just have 20% of it. And if you want to hear Professor Hal doing battle with a prominent british pornographic film star, then go over to the LBC website and you will be able to find a recording of that remarkable encounter. I'm not joking, by the way. Ron's in Mason. Wrong. Question or answer? It's an answer. Come on, then. For the fires in prisons. Question. Basically, our main job is preservation of life. And if the whole jail was on fire, we'd work with the police, then we'd have to take them all outside because we can't be seen. So that everyone burn, to be frank. So you're a prison officer? But. But, yes. I mean, obviously, I don't think anyone thought you'd leave them all to burn. So in terms of we take them all outside. I'm looking for a bit more than that, mate, really. Basically, what happens is we all have plans when there's fires. Yes. If there's a fire in the whole jail, we then take them out to the football yard. But if that's also on fire. Yes, we literally take them out through the gate with assistance from the police, get them outside, and if they escape, then at the end of the day, we've saved everyone's lives and we have to work hard to get them back. But the police would be so. Because you'd be massively understaffed. To deal with something like that, the police would turn up mob handed and help you sort of shepherd people and maybe, well, hang on, you stay there. Are you a prison officer? Yes. At Maidstone. Well, I'm based in Maidstone but I live in south London. Fair enough. Paul's in Harrow. Paul, question or answer? Is the answer to continue what you're saying right now? Yes. Ex police, 14 years in London. He's absolutely right. You know, they have a duty of care to get these people out, but there is a contingency plan when this goes, we can't have hundreds of prisoners just running the streets amok and, you know, not being, you know, very dangerous criminals. So what the police would do is, he's right, they can emote to the police in a proper way, get them into custody, use themselves in custody if they can, or open up police stations that have old custody suites just for this operation. Unfortunately it's going to get far and few between because police stations are closing. But the, you know, the old custody suites would be open. And in the past, what we used to do is when there wasn't enough space in the prisons, the custody suites used to be used so they could stay there the night before going to prison the next day after court. That's a pretty comprehensive answer. So I go from both sides of the law and order debate. Well, not both sides. You're both on the same side. As opposed to the other side would be the criminals. But Ron and Paul, you're both happy to share. Yeah, happy to share. Carry on, Janice. Look at that. Beautiful. See? Forces of law and order working together in perfect harmony. 27 after twelve is the time. I like that. We're crossing them off. We've still got a few to answer. Can you get two infections at the same time? Crowds who sing in tunes and the boxing ring? One I've done. I said people are standing in a circle. I should have added, I think back in the day they drew a circle on the ground as well. So don't ring in with that. Ring in with an answer to the singing in tunes question or the two infections at once, is it possible? And ring in with questions of your own because we've got room now for lots more and we're only halfway through the program. The number you need to ring in with a question is zero. 345-606-0973 okay, hit the numbers now. You will get through. Busy, busy, busy. Steve's in Hornsey. Question or answer, Steve? Question, please carry on. Okay, so if you got your standard big five and you drew a continuous line. How long would the line be before you ran out of ink? I don't. That's a rubbish question. Yes, because the only way you can answer that question, if someone's done it and you can't be bothered doing it, so why, if you can't be bothered doing it, why would you get to use the benefit of mystery outer? Why? You can do it yourself. Go and get a biro, get some paper, get a blowing ruler and bring me back next week. No, I need an answer. Why do you need an answer? Because I'm curious. I need an answer. Well, get an eye if you're that curious. Get a pen, get some paper and get a ruler. All right then. So an average biro, how long a line could you write or draw before running out of ink? Yep. All right, mate, you're on. If we get an answer that, I'll give you the money myself. Although I shouldn't be careful what I wish for, because we talked once about. I think it popped up on mystery hour and this is going back years, it shows you how committed people are to this program. Talking about someone said, have you ever seen an empty biro? I think that came up on mister, has anyone ever written with a biro? Right to the end, and quite a few people had. And you know, to this day I still occasionally get sent a completely spent bic Biro. Truly I am living the celebrity dream. When I open my post in the morning, I still have twice a year someone will say, I don't know if you remember, James, but a while ago you were talking about whether anyone had ever used a biro right until the end of the ink. Well, guess what happened to me at work the other day, so I thought I'd send you this. It's great, isn't it? Next time send wine. It's 12:30 Eleanor Noakes is here with the headline. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. A couple of questions on the board, room for a few more. For example, why do crowds manage to sing in tune when presumably the majority of the individuals within the crowd cannot? We've done the fire question in prisons pretty comprehensively as well. Definition of definitive. And can you get two viruses at once, two colds at once, specifically, but I think infections would probably work as well. And the question about biros, I said I'd put it on the board, so I will. It's not going to end well. This Andre is already causing problems by pointing out that it would depend on what sort of paper you were using. Because different types of paper have different absorbency rates of ink. But the question was, if you drew a line with a biro until it ran out, how long would that line be? I mean, look, obviously, depending on biros, depends on temperature as well, doesn't it? I mean, there'll be all sorts of variables, but if anyone's got even sort of a sort of answer to that question, I'll take it. We're going double professor this week. Our other professor, our other pet professor is on the line. Professor Martin Smith, professor of robotics at Middlesex University. Saw you on the telly the other day, professor. Oh, well done. That was Sky News driverless. That was it, yeah. Talking driverless cars on Sky News. And I teased Professor Howe with it because I haven't seen him on teddy for ages. It was two one day after the other. I know it was, yeah. There you go. How to see. Do you hear that? Two and two. Two and two days. You see. Two days on the telly. Anyway, what. What have you got for me this week? Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's to the audio feedback, the tunes. How do you stay in tune? Sorry, this is rather like if you were blindfolded and you tried to touch a point, you couldn't do it. But if your eyes are in the loop, as it were, you can. And it's a similar thing with audio feedback. If you can hear a sound that you know is right, you can bring yourself, your voice onto that same pitch, which is very difficult if you're trying to do it from memory. Yes. It's why people who can't sing that well on their own quite enjoy singing in choirs. Yes. And you have a kind of. In the case of a crowd, you have a kind of cocktail party phenomenon. You know that business where there's lots and lots of people talking, lots of voices around you, but you're able to pick in, pick on one conversation, even if it's slightly, slightly weaker, the ear can pick on it. And it's the opposite of that whistle you get if you take a microphone near a speaker. That's positive feedback. And what we are getting with the crowds is what's called negative feedback. Qualifications? I did acoustics in my physics degree many, many years ago. Beautifully done. I hope you don't get any feedback from this. Round of applause before you go. Did you get booked by the telly before you became a mystery hour regular? No, you were the first. Yeah. You see, so we're creating celebrities now, turning professors into media stars. Thank you very much, Professor Martin Smith, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex, two time tv star in the last week alone. Unlike Professor House Ozobosky, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, he, however, has been arguing with porn stars on other LBC programs. So, swings and roundabouts. Sam's in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Carry on, Sam. So I went to football the other week, as he said, I'm in Liverpool. So I went to see the Liverpool United game, which was hilarious. And just to go for a bit on the way there, though, we were walking down the alleys on the way to Anfield and some of the road had been eroded out and you could see the cobbles underneath. And it got me thinking, how much is underneath us, basically. So what I'm wondering is, before we had our cities here, like, the cities must have been a lot lower, the ground must have been a lot lower. So how much is the ground now, basically? I don't know that that's a proper question because it's going to be so variable according to where you are and how old the city is and what sort of ground it's built on. Occasionally. You see, here's a thing. My old english teacher lived near an abbey in North Yorkshire called Revo Abbey, and she was one of the most intelligent, wonderful people I've ever met. But she told me a story about a ghost once, and she said she'd seen a monk walking along a bit of grass where the cloister would have been in this old abbey, but that the monk was sort of cut off at the waist, if you see what I mean. His waist was at ground level. And she did a little bit of research and it turned out that back when the abbey was functional, the cloister floor would have actually been where his feet would have been if his waist was cut off where the grass was now. But in order to give you a proper answer to your question, you'd have to presume that the entire country or every city was the same. And you just can't do that. Yeah. I mean, you've proven that ghosts exist now as well, so that's. I haven't proven that ghosts exist, but it was a story that oddly stuck in my mind as well. There was another story as well, about there not being a church bell within about a 40 miles radius. But occasionally they'd hear a bell ringing which seemed to be emanating from the abbey Tower as well. I'm trying to think of. It would vary greatly from city to city average in London? No, because then it depends how long it's been populated for. Parts of London were parkland 100 years ago. Parts of them were slums. I mean, they're going to be completely different, aren't they? Yeah. I'm not being annoying. Well, I am being annoyed, but I'm not trying to be annoying. I understand why it's obviously going to vary. It's going to vary so enormously. I don't know what question to ask to focus in on a possible answer. You've got how much. How many rough. Do you. But how. How can there be? Because, I mean, where I live, you go up to look on the maps. Going back in time, most of it was an orchard and then you just go half a mile north and it was all houses. So they're going to be completely different levels from. That's human habitat and orchards. I mean, you still sort of. You need to till the land. It would raise the land as well. Yeah. If there's someone out there. Yeah. I mean, here's Sam and I clumsily collating a question. If you've managed to get further than we have in asking it, then you can answer it. How's that? Perfect. Yeah. Nice one. Well done, mate. 1240 is the time. Can we. Can we. Can we pay a bit more attention on the fight? Letting a fella in with a question like that, honestly, just because he's a nice bloke doesn't mean he should get a free pass. I haven't thought that through at all. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Jen's in Windsor. Jan, question or answer? Answer. Go on. So the average length of like a ballpoint refill is about. Shut the front door. You've really rung in with an answer to that question. Yeah. Go on then. How about. How long? About 2 miles. 2 miles of line from the average ballpoint pen. Ball point. Research qualifications. At university, I used to work for the pen shop and we had five days of training on all different types of pens and stuff. And that was one of the factors. You had five days of training to sell pens? Yeah. What do you do now? I run my own business now. I've got. I've got a challenge already on the other line. Stay there, jan, don't go away. Alan's in camberley. Alan, what have you got? Close. Very close, but no cigar. All right, the metric versus imperial is 2 km, not 2 miles. 19 years old. Man and boy. Man and boy. How many days of training did you get though, pal. Mate. Untold boring. So interesting. Fantastic teammate. Meetings are totally up this 2 km, Jan, I'm hearing not 2 miles over 20 years ago. So alan could be tell. Alan could be telling the truth. Well, he cut. Well, that's what I just remembered. I remember 2 miles, but you know, 2 miles, 2 km. It's a big enough difference between 2 miles and 2 km. This is getting quite controversial. I'm going to call it penguate. Ball point pen. Ball point pen. The average ballpoint pen. We can agree on the two. Yeah, I'm leaning to it's only up to 2 km as well. Do you know what I mean? Most won't do it, but if it starts straight out of the barrel and you ain't right in. Right. Right. Optimum first rule of paint pressure. Yeah. If it's a broad refill or a fine nib. Or a broad nib. That would make your standard brick. Brick crystal here. We're not going to get all fancy. I think we're going to share it, aren't we? Yeah. You know what? Just for fun, because it doesn't matter. Oh, no, Alan's right. Alan, I think you're more right than Jen. But I can't send Jen away with nothing. I'll give her some. She got the two and I'll do the comment. I'm your first time caller and I never thought I would call up about this. Well, frankly, I'm surprised anybody did. I'm not going to lie to either of you. Who'd have thought that I had at least two listeners with the background in pens. Okay, here's a round of applause for both of you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Jan. Lovely stuff. Zero 345-606-0973 if you want to join in, we've not got a lot left now singing. In fact, we've done everything. So we've got room for a few more questions, I think. 1243. Be quick on this, actually, and we'll get your answers on the board in time as well. Just want to know about whether it's possible to get two infections at the same time. Riley's in Greenwich, though. Question or answer? Riley? It's a question, James. Come on, mate. Okay, occupations. Why do some occupations end in ER and then others end in ist? And is there a difference? For example, why is a farmer not a pharmist and why is like a stylist or a pharmacist not a stylist or a farmist? What's made you wonder about this? I don't know. It just popped into my head. So then they're nouns that have been derived from verbs. So a doer is not a doist, a farmer. So a farmer is doing farming. A styling. A stylist is doing styling. Why are some of them ers and some of them ists? Yeah, I'm presenter, I'm presenting. I'm not a presentist. That's right. What's was? I said, I like this one. I just don't want to stick it up there and then subsequently discover that it's rubbish, if you see what I mean. Yeah, I know you mean, it's definitely not rubbish. Presenter. Let's make a little list, then. Dentist would be dentist. Or dentur does dentistry. So. No, that's stylistry. No, it's good, this. What are you. What's your profession? I'm an it consultant. Oh, well, that's just ruined it for everybody, mate. And I thought. I thought you. I thought you had some status anxiety going on. I thought that you were an er, like me, a presenter. But I'm also a journalist and that your mate was an ist and you were jealous because you thought his job sounded better than yours, but you're an it consultant, so everybody's job sounds better than yours. No, no, that's not fair. Riley. My apologies. Why are some jobs ers and other jobs ists and your job an anti ants? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know, but let's find out. Okay. Zero. 345-606-0973 I got time for more questions. I stress as well. If you want to get one on the board, you can do so now. Ones that need an answer. Jobs that are us, jobs that are hists, jobs that are ants. Is there any rhyme or reason to it whatsoever? And is it possible to get two infections at the same time? I think we've got an answer that coming up after this. From the LBC travel center. Good afternoon, I'm Jay Louise Nightingale and still sing. It's 1249. And actually, I think we might do better than we hoped on the question about how low the streets would have been in the olden days. I know that sounds a little bit vague. I've had one very good answer via Twitter and I've replied to it and said, ring in. But then, of course, I glanced at my switchboard and saw how hard it was to get through. But, Mark, seriously, just use redo. You can just pick your own historical period if you want. So, Sam in Liverpool's question because he saw some cobbles emerging from beneath the tarmac on some streets in Liverpool the other day, and it occurred to him that the streets would have been much lower down back in the day. And he's absolutely right. It's why archaeology exists, isn't it? When you think about it, if you find an Iron Age settlement somewhere, it's underground. But didn't someone once tell me that? It doesn't happen very often, but someone hoaxed me. It was something to do with dinosaurs and burrowing, and I made a complete idiot of myself and read out the question. And we had someone in from the museum, from the Natural History Museum. We had a paleontologist in an international dinosaur expert, because I wasn't really concentrating. And you were sending in questions for her. It's going back 100 years. I asked her something about dinosaurs burrowing, because their remains are always found underground, something stupid like that. So we won't be falling into that trap again, but pick a period. So my tweeter went for Roman Britain, and on average, how far below the streets of modern London would the streets of Roman London be? I'll take that, because it's adding to the sum total of human knowledge. And the other question is about infections or viruses, whether it's possible to get two at once. Because I think my little girl has. At the moment, 1251 is the time. Jen's in London Bridge. Jen, what have you got? Hi, James. I hope your little girls is not as serious as my little boys. He has pneumonia. Oh, no. At the same time he was incubated. Spent his fourth birthday in hospital. It's a distant memory now. He's 27, but, yeah. And I think that's two infections, croup and pneumonia. And pneumonia, yeah, I'm hearing other examples as well, via text and tweet, but we need to get it over the phone. So, very simply put, the answer is yes. And your qualifications are? It happened to my boy. Exactly, yes. My little baby. Twice in two days you've been on. Now I have, yes. Sorry, we need to watch that, Jen. Sorry. That's all right, I'll let you off. I mean, also yesterday, very serious, today, very silly. Well, while I've got you, can I ask you just something where only you can answer? Well, I am a married man, you know. I know, I know. Carry on. I know what happened. Beat the sweet. Well, beat the sweet. Good Lord. I don't know that there'll be. I don't know. I'm an old listener. You are. Well, you've been listening for a long time. I'd never dream of calling you an old listener. But. But beat the sweet was a feature on the program. Let's just call it in. My. Well, Stu in Berman has been in touch to say, I really like you, James, when you're doing mister how you sound like a mischievous little boy. That's a lovely compliment, Stu, but I can't help feeling that there's a sort of subtext to it suggesting that you don't like me the rest of the time. Beat the sweet. You think this is mischievous little boy territory? Beat the sweet was a game I invented live on the radio many, many moons ago that involved people bringing in to guess what sweet I was eating. You had to be there, all right? And, no, we won't be bringing it back anytime soon. 1252 is the time. Jen, you still there? Yeah, I'm here. Thank God for that, because you're too busy asking me silly questions. You forgot about this. Or I did. Round of applause. 1253 is the time. LJ's in Ilford. LJ. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Why do we blow on dice? For good luck before we roll them. Nobody knows. But. No, seriously, nobody knows. It's like my geography teacher don't need to know. Nobody knows. But there are a couple of theories I can share with you. Go for it. One is that there is a theory some bad gamblers had doctored the dice with a substance that would become sticky if you blew on it. And the other is simply to clean them. To clean them? Yeah. I've said there's no answer to it. Nobody knows why. It's just a superstition. A lot of superstitions don't have any root in rationality. In fact, none do really say walking under ladders. What? It doesn't work, really, does it? Well, of course it doesn't work. If you had a sticky substance on it that got activated by being blown on. Yeah, I suppose. But that's all there is. I promise you, there's no. There's no. Kind of. Sometimes the superstition has got a religious root in it. Why do we do that? Well, think of the cross, or whatever it might be, crossing your fingers, I guess, has a link to the crucifixion, maybe. I don't know, but there's nothing at all. Wow. Thanks, James. Thank you, mate. And I'll take a round of applause for that. Whoa. Open goal. 1254 is the time. It's time for that to get challenged as well. If we get a stewards inquiry today. I bet it's about that one. But I'm pretty certain. I'm pretty certain I nailed that. Mark is in southwark. Are you the mark that tweeted me? Yeah. And you got through. You see, there's a lesson for everybody there. A bit of patience. What have you got? Question or answer? Judicious use of redo. Judicious use of redo. Well played, Mark. Answer to the distance below of. Well, I'm going to give it to you for old London. Yes, to new London. And I suppose the best. You're right. I mean, I think your analysis was right. It's going to vary all over the place according to how the place is developed. But I think it's reasonable to assume that Roman London was one of the oldest settlements in the country. And the City of London, the square mile, is one of the most built on parts of the country. And the distance you have there is about 20 foot. 20 foot. From. From pavement level now to pavement level. Yeah. In the times of Caesar, if you go to the Grange Hotel. The Grange hotel near Tower of London, near Tower Hill station. Yes. There's an old bit of roman wall there, and you stand on a patio and you can look down to the base of the roman wall, so you can see the foot of Roman London about 20ft below your feet. Qualifications? I am chairman of footprints of London, the largest independent collective of London. Tour guide. Okay, nice. See? Beautifully played. Oh, God. Just stay on for a bit longer. Tell me something else amazing. About what? About your stuff. About, you know, history. You haven't had an origins question today, have you? No. Have you ever done all at sixes and sevens? No. Go on, play as that. So do that one. Listen to clever people like you all day. Yeah. City livery companies in the 15 hundreds. They established an order of precedence and everybody was happy with the place they give. They were given, except the merchant tailors and the skinners. And so to this day. Day, those two London livery companies change places in the order of precedence each year between six and seven. So if you're a merchant tailor or a skinner, you never know if you're at place six or place seven, so you're always at sixes and sevens. Look at that. In places. In what? Says in the Lord Mayor's parade or something like that. No, it was when the livery companies actually had some real power in the City of London and they were arguing about who was the most important. Oh, I see. And I'd say everyone. They agreed a consensus on who was 1st, 2nd, 3rd, fourth and fifth. But then the Skinners and the merchant tailors got all previous on who should be 6th and who should be 7th. Yep. Love it, love it, love it, love it, love it, love it. How do people go on one of your tours? If they want, they go to the footprints of london.com website. There you go. See? There we go. Something for everybody. 1256 is a time. And a round of applause for mark. Beautifully done. Beautifully done. Happy St Patrick's day, one and all. Daphne's in Chelsea. Question or answer? Daphne. Hello, James. Hello, Daphne. How are you? I'm all right. How are you? Okay. I've got a nice boozy question for you. A nice boozy question. I've got one of those shifts today. I'm not. I don't finish work till 11:15 tonight. I won't be able to have a drink. The different sizes of champagne bottles, you know, the very large ones are called strange names. Yes. Such as jeroboams, nebuchadnezzars. Where does that originate? Old Testament. They're all Old Testament kings. I know they're all Old Testament kings, but why is it. Why are the champagne bottles called us? So why did the champagne elect Old Testament kings as the names of their old bottles? Exactly. I know. What, babylonian and Old Testament kings, but that's a strange. They're strange names to choose, aren't they? Well, what would you have chosen? Well, yeah, but big. Really big. X, large, xx. Large. Yeah, you're right, actually. The reason I've been a little bit disrespectful is because I'm keep. I'm keeping one eye on the clock and I don't think we're going to have time to answer this. No, I know. Will you ring in next week? Oh, I've tried a couple of weeks now and I've always got invited. The end. It's just not fair, is it? Sheila. Hang on. Sheila Fogarty drinks a lot. I'll ask her if she knows. Do we know why champagne bottles are called nebuchadnezzars? And I know it comes from the Old Testament, but why did they choose old Testament kings for the size of bottles? No idea what you're talking about. I never drink at all. No. Sorry about that, Daphne. Look, we've got 30 seconds. I'll see if anyone rings in. Otherwise we shall. We shall have to never. We'll never, never, never know. And I've got a bit of business to do as well. I've got to remind you that if you run a small to medium sized business and you've been thinking of growing internationally, but assumed that growing global is just for the big companies, then think again, because next week on LBC, we'll be teaming up with. Exporting is great to explore the massive opportunities for UK businesses, anything from sending iced tea to Costa Rica or cocktail dresses to Switzerland. British expertise and products are in demand, so whatever your business, you can take advantage. Listen all next week for the LBC special report on exporting and to find out how you can grow your business. Just search. Exporting is great. That's it for me for another week. I'm off to drink a nebuchadnezzar. No, I'm not, sadly. A jeroboam. A jeroboam? Not even a jeroboam. We'll do it again tomorrow morning. Front end. You may have detected Sheila Fogarty's presence in the studio. Yes. Thank you very much, James. I'm tempted to say hick, but I won't. As SeaWorld in Florida ends its orca whale breeding programme. From three, I want to ask you how far, really, how far you think we've come in the treatment of animals? Two, what does it say about society that so much attention is being paid today to Theresa May's cleavage, decoy tage breasts and so on? That's from two. After the news, 20 Conservative MP's could rebel over these planned changes to disability benefits. Yesterday, in his statement, George Osborne declared the Tories are spending more on disabled people than at any time under labor. I've just spoken to an LBC.