Who pilots if both the pilots can't pilot?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, it's that time already. Three minutes after twelve is the time. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And by that I mean simply that you will have a mystery in your life and someone else will have the answer. My job is to be like Tinder. I bring you together in the hope of consummation of knowledge. 034-560-6097 stop saying ear. That was a nice analogy. All right. Honestly. I try and embrace the language of youth. Everybody looks at me as if I'm sitting in the corner of the room rubbing my thighs like Vic Reeves on shooting stars. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a mystery in need of resolution. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then bada bing, you're away. You ring in with it, you provide it, you get a round of applause, you may get. Wait for it. You may get the biggest honor that british radio has to convey, but then again, you may not. The way you get that is, if your qualifications for answering the question are breathtakingly good. I think the word I want is apposite, but I could be wrong. Appropriate. Relevant. Relevant. Breathtakingly relevant. So, for example, if I were to ask you a question about, I don't know, horse racing and you are Frankie de Tory, you'd probably get a Ray Liotta. If I were to ask you a question about walking on the moon and Buzz Aldrin wings in, he's probably going to get a Ray Liotta. The bar is high. Unless I'm in a particularly good mood, in which case there are moments where. Where I dosh them out like Haribo. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Let us begin the first mystery hour of 2020 with one of the staunchest allies of this program over the entire last decade. Wayne is in Basildon. Wayne, happy new year. Happy new year, mate. Even though I've already said it to you on WhatsApp, but you didn't reply. All right? I was barely on my phone over the whole of the festive period. Question or answer? It's a question, my friend. Go on. It's quite topical because obviously we're in the new year and everybody. Spare me the commentary, mate. Just give me the question. All right? It's not a red button. It's not a red. You always try and do this. You always big up your role. Don't you always come on and try? It's bad enough that people asked for your autograph at my last. And now the producer's cross with me because I didn't reply to her texts over the Christmas period either. And she's saying, so you reply to Wayne but not to me. He just said, I don't reply to him. I don't reply to anybody. I told you that. But anyway, we digress. What's the question? Sure. I just find you under the bus there, mate. Yeah. As this in the, you know, the season of getting yourself fit and everything. Yeah. I've got myself some multivitamins here and I'm just wondering what is a vitamin? Because like everything else in here, like iodine, I know what that is. Creatine, magnesium. I can say there's a pile of creatine over there. There's a pile of magnesium. But what is a vitamin? And what defines it as a vitamin? A, b, e or k? Plus? I don't know what it is. That's a really good question. Yeah, because it's just everyone says, oh, you need more vitamin this, but what is it? I don't know. Well, there you go. I know, I like it. So what sort of question, what sort of answer are you looking for? It's a collection of amino acids. Or it's a. I mean, what? Well, no, because if it was an amino acid, it would be highlighted on here. Like I've got. There's loads of acids highlighted on here. But, but it's, I mean, but what I mean is how do we guard against people ringing in to say it's a vitamin, stupid. Well, we'd need to know what the chemical makeup of it. What is it? Where does it come from? How do you extract it? You know that it's mystery out, mate. You've got to be able to answer it in one sentence. What is a vitamin? It's a. Yeah. What's an apple? What's an apple, Wayne? Wayne, what's an apple? It's the offspring of a tree. Yeah. That shot your fox, isn't it? Not exactly, no. I was just internally debating how rude I would get away with being the offspring of a tree. So is a leaf. So is a leaf. Yeah. So. Well, so that's not the definition of an apple then. Okay. Okay. It's a reproductive process of a tree. No, it's not the reproductive process of a tree. How does it, how does it, how does an apple tree come about? Well, I mean, they, they mostly descended from the Garden of Eden. I believe. I shall get it for you. What is a vitamin? Wayne needs to know. Oh. 304 560609. Mind how you go. Ryan is in Bristol. Ryan, question or answer? I've got a question. James. Carry on. Ryan. Right, this is what I've been trying to get on for ages. Oh, no. If you're on a plane. Yes. And the pilot and a co pilot become unresponsive. Both of them? Yeah. What's the protocol to land a plane? And I say that as someone who's petrified of flying. Well, don't. Don't ever read about what happened to Victoria Corrin or Victoria Corrin Mitchell, as she is now when she sought help with her fear of flying. Because it won't cheer you up at all. Oh, what happens? I just told you. Don't. Don't go there. Don't go there. So what the. What happens if the pilot and the co pilot are both on response? So someone goes into the cockpit, they're both out cold, they can't be roused. Yeah. What happens exactly? Well, they say over the tannoy, is there a pilot on board? Don't they? Yep. Right. But in that situation, there's. Doesn't it? There's no pilots. What is the protocol from the tower to land the plane if it can be landed? They talk somewhere down in the film. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. Not your dad, not the counselor or your counselor. But I don't know that if you already have a fear of flying, that this is a healthy avenue to be exploring, my friend. Yeah. Yeah, maybe. So what if the answer renders you even more terrified of flying than you are already? I just sold it in England. Fair enough. It's as simple as that. Fair enough. Pilot and co pilot. What happens if they're both on risk? What happens if there's no one there to fly the plane? What is that? It's actually a brilliant question. But I apologize in advance for any heebie jeebies that it may inflict upon my beloved listeners. Twelve oh is the time. What is a vitamin? And what happens if both the pilot and the co pilot are unresponsive? Matthew is in Stockport. Matthew, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I was watching the football last night, and someone put a good goal in. And the commentator said, oh, that's straight out of the top drawer. What is the origin of the top drawer? Why is the top drawer so good? Oh, that should be obvious, but it isn't. Well, I thought this myself. That's what? I thought I'd ask you, because I don't know about you, but, I mean, top draw for me is pants and socks, so it's hardly a massive obvious. It doesn't convey quality immediately, does it? Although I've got. I've got some very nice pants for Christmas. Top jaw. What else is top jaw? Food. They must. I like it a lot. I like it a lot. What is the origin of top jaw? Nice one. Okay, you're on the list. Cheers, Matthew. Happy new year. 1210 is the time. Jane is in welling, garden city. Jane, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why is it that the loose bits of skin as older women. No, I haven't finished. I know where you're going. Two fat ladies. Do you? Right. I don't know if you do, but anyway. Yes, the loose bits of skin that women get under their arms. Some women, Jane. Some women. Some women. Okay, women tend to be, you know, a little bit older. Women of a certain age. Women of a certain age, like myself. Yes. Why are they called bingo wings? Well, it's actually quite obvious. Why? Well, because the demographic that you just described is about age, and to a degree, it's also about lifestyle and the kind of women who are drawn to the bingo. Oh, that's dreadful. What are you talking about? It's the truth. They're called bingo wings are going to be probably overweight and have bingo. Not overweight, necessarily, but they've gone to the bingo, not to the gym, Jane. So, you know, you do the maths. If they'd gone swimming every Tuesday night instead of going down the mecca, they wouldn't have bingo wings, would they? So that is the answer. Bingo wings. Because the anatomical phenomenon that you describe is associated with women who demographically are more likely to go to the bingo than other demographics of women. It is that simple. Bingo wings. Because they're bingo. Women with wings. Okay. Well, they. They raise their hands a lot and they. Yeah, they press numbers with a button. So they are exercising a bit. A little bit. But, you know, it doesn't take much heft to wield a dobber, does it? I wouldn't know. I never wielded a dobber in my life. That's what they all say. Jake, round of applause for me, please, if I'm wrong about that. Happy New Year, Jay. If I'm wrong about that, I'll give you the money myself. But it is a reflection upon the perceived demographic of bingo going women. I nearly got lynched at the bingo in Norwich once. I thought I was being all waspish and witty. Filming something for a show I was doing down for Anglia television. Aha. And it involved us sniggering in the background while filming and we thought everyone else would be. It was an incredibly arrogant thing to do. In retrospect. We thought everyone else would see the bingo as ironically as we did. But of course, the people playing the bingo didn't think it was ironic at all. And so we're sniggering in the background. They can't hear the bingo caller calling out the numbers. Let's just say words were exchanged. 1213 is the time. Sharia is in Uxbridge. Did I pronounce your name correctly? Very good. Question or answer? Answer. Let's go to your pilot question. Basically, member of crew would step into the seats and would get instructions over the radio. Qualifications? I'm crew for an airline. Have you ever done it? No, of course not. Would you say, of course not? Has it ever happened? I mean, have you ever nod to me? Not in 15 years. I've got another call on this, so stay there. I'm going to cross to Barry, who's in Saffron Walden. Barry, what's your answer? Oh, hi, James. There is no actual protocol written down to cover that eventuality. If both pilots were to become incapacitated, you've effectively got an airplane flying on its own left with the last instructions given to it. As the previous caller was saying, bright minded cabin crew would hopefully recognise the situation. That's the first problem they've got. They've got to understand that both pilots are incapacitated and that then they may extract one of the pilots from the seats or both, if they can, because they might be locked over the controls or whatever, and then they may attempt to contact air traffic control, who may be in a position to get someone. So there's no protocol because there's too many variables. But the best practice would be to at least try and get another member of staff into the seat and then get them talked down by air traffic control. Yeah. I mean, the protection that the paying public have is that we try and avoid that situation. So, for example, both pilots have different food. We make sure we come to work well rested, we don't come to work if we're ill. And you have different. Different dinners in case there's some botulism or something like that. Indeed. Oh, I did not know that. That's quite reassuring. I mean, I'm going to go out on a limb here and guess that your qualifications are that you're a pilot. I am. And have you ever been incapacitated in a cockpit? That's not a figure. And I've never come across my other colleague incapacitated either. Have you ever heard of it happening? It has happened, yeah. There's been some serious accidents, actually. I don't know if you can recall a greek 737 that got airborne and didn't pressurize and the pilots hadn't noticed it and they both went unconscious and the aircraft just flew along till it ran out of fuel. And no one would have noticed? No. And since then, protocol has been introduced because the cabin crew had noticed the aircraft had depressurized because the oxygen masks had deployed, but they hadn't reacted to the situation. Oh, blimey. Yeah. Well, I mean, it's a brilliant answer, but you're both right. You're not. It's not a steward's inquiry. Sharia is correct, albeit that it's not formally written down as protocol. That would be a fair thing to say. Yes. Well, let me say to both of you gentlemen that I hope you never have to enact this in reality. Absolutely, indeed, Shaheer, I mean that for you as well. I mean, no offense, but I'd much rather Barry was flying the plane than you, mate. Round of applause for both. Both crew. Thanks. Thanks, fellas. 1216, this is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1218. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. What's the vitamin? It's a good question, that. What's the origin of the phrase top drawer? Where does it actually come from? Because most of us, it's pants and socks or tights and knickers in our top drawer. So where's the benefit in that? Well, that's top drawer reminds me of pants, so that's a good question. So presumably it refers back to top drawers that are no longer prevalent. And there's one phone line for you. If you've got a question of your own, of course, I urge you to ring in. If you can answer either of those. Chris is in Evesham. Chris, question or answer. Hello, James. And happy New year to you. Thank you. Happy New year to you. It's a question about that, really. Customer and I, we're just discussing this. When do we start wishing people a happy new year? Where's the cut off point in the January period? Probably there isn't one, but it's. I mean, I'm saying happy new year today because it's my first day back. I mean, it is. It's only the 2 January, so it doesn't feel odd. But what if I had taken off today and tomorrow, which in retrospect, I wish I had done because everyone else is still on holiday and I'm here toiling away thanklessly. Not at all. We're very thankful for you. I paused a bit there, Chris. I was expecting you to come in sooner, actually. Sorry. I'm multitasking at the moment, at the same time. I know you are. I know you are. You've already mentioned that you've had a customer already this morning. So we're both at work. It's just the kids who are still in bed. If it was Monday, if it was now the 6 January and I was still epiphany and I was still doing it, would that sound odd? I don't think it would because it'd be my first day back, you see, but I won't do it on Monday because I've already done it today. It would sound odd in February. Very odd in February. But I don't think there's an official cutoff point. You'd say it probably for the first half of January to anybody that you haven't seen since last year. Okay, yeah, fair enough. Yeah. But don't take my word for it. I mean, maybe there is. I shall ask. Is there an official cutoff point? What business are you in, if you don't mind me asking, what was your customer customing? My customer is still customing. I'm a tattooist. And you're doing a job at the moment. I am indeed. Yeah. I've got you on, like, loudspeaker right by. Well, multitasking is one thing, but you can't be tattooing people while you're talking. You need a level of intellectual engagement with this program that I'm not sure you can provide if you're doing an ink. How very dare you. I certainly. Can I speak to your client briefly? Yeah. Be right. What's his name? Mike. A very sexist presumption there that you were tattooing. Mike, are you all right there, mate? I am, yeah. I mean, you don't have to put up with him talking to some geezer on the radio while he's tattooing your armpit. I'm not sure. You all right? I trust him. I trust him enough to know that he can do both things at once. Well, I mean, you know him better than I do. What's he doing? What's the latest work? He's currently doing chainmail on my right. Oh, on my left arm. Sorry. Fantastic. How far into the job have we gone already? We still got a way to go and it'll be painful right now. Well, Sheila will be here at 01:00 so, you know, I'll take your mind off. I'll take your mind off things. Round of applause for Chris and Mike in the tattoo parlor in each. There you go. Alex is in Hampshire. Alex, question or answer? Hi, James, quick question for you. We've got two dogs, Harry and Hugo and Hugo. Harry. Harry. Harry and Hugo. Harry and Hugo. I like it. I like it. Carry on. And they are. They are father and son. Do they know that? Do they know that? Do they know that? Their father and son. What have you told them? How do they know that? Well, obviously, many times. Well, then they do, because obviously they're. They're pack animals, so they understand the pack. But do they know that they're actually related? I like that question. They must have some sort of kinship, mustn't they? Or not smell or something. We had the mother as well, but she, unfortunately, she, um. She passed away about a year after Hugo was born. I'm sorry. And obviously there was a connection between those two because she looked after him. But I don't know if Hugo knows that Harry is his father. Well, I mean, are we sure that Harry is his father? Not to cast aspersions on the late, lamented mother of Hugo. No, the kids. The kids saw it happening. Oh, Lord above. Yes, that was a conversation. It's all happening on the show today, isn't it? At least it was the tattooing live, not the dogs copulating. That would have been something even I'd have struggled to banter. The kids saw the birth as well. Really? That's rare. Yeah, very rare. That's a lovely thing. Um, I. I mean, who would know? Doctor dog might know if the area is listening, but we should. Let's psychologist. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, father and son, do they get on well? Uh, sometimes. Well, that might not be. They don't get along well at all. You know, they are. They do fight the dominant. I was going to say the light, the Lion King was on yesterday and eventually. I know I missed it. I still haven't watched that beautiful film. Beautiful film. But. But, you know, eventually you'll be like you say, you'd be vying for leadership of the pack. And presumably you might have to. You might have to see off your old man in some. I do not know, but we will find out for you. Zero 345-606-0973 do Hugo and Harry know that they're related. Zero, three, four. I've already said the number. When do we stop saying happy new year? I've provided an answer, but I don't want to keep distracting old Chris there in Evesham, in case he slips a bit and Mike's chain mail turns into something less attractive. And there's one other question as well. What's a vitamin? Wayne in Basildon needs to know. Who were you to meet him in the flesh? You might consider him to be a stranger to vitamins, but he's clearly not. He got something new year. Simon is in Ashdown Forest. Simon, question or answer? It's an answer to the vitamin question. Fantastic. Carry on. Right, so they're basically a group of compounds, carbon based compounds, that are essential for normal metabolism, normal function of the body that you can't acquire from the body, build them themselves. So you normally get them from your. From a dietary source, or, for example, with the sun, you can get. You can get vitamin D metabolized by the body from sunlight, but you can also acquire it from things like fish oils and fats and that sort of stuff. So that's basically what the vitamin is. It's very straightforward and it's all linked to metabolism, is it? Yeah. Yes. So the normal functions of your body. So there are some inherited conditions, for example, whereby you've got certain amino acids and you haven't got the correct vitamins and you can have certain conditions based on that. Just to clarify, because you're clearly an expert and this program is. Well, I would. Clearly you are, but this is one of the rare outposts of the british media where we still revere experts and we still respect expertise. But the word metabolism is a bigger word than many of us understand. I, for example, used to think it's referred almost exclusively to digestion. So metabolism is turning food into energy, but it's any chemical reaction that sustains life? Yeah, I mean, I would just. Any function, really, within the body. And so you think of a vitamin as a nutrient or a micronutrient that you need for some chemical reactions that sustain life. Yes. So you differentiate. So, for example, it's a carbon based product, as opposed to a mineral, which isn't necessary. So magnesium, for example, you get that in another form, but that's not carbon based, obviously. Oh, this is strong. What are your qualifications? Don't spoil it. I'm a medical microbiologist. Thank you very much. Round of applause for Simon, the medical microbiologist. 1226 is the time. It's almost as if I whistled. Doctor dog is here. Vieri is in Rome, in Italy. And as a dog behaviouralist, all round dog expert, I'm gonna go out on a limb and say you're not here to answer the question about happy new year. Well, happy new year, in any case. No, I'm here to answer the whole question. Unusual. Do they know that it's Chris? Do they know they're related? Do Hugo and Harry know that they're father and son or. No, they just know that they grew up together very closely. They formed a bond. So they could just be friends? Together? They could just be friends, yes. So if you put two puppies together from different litters, they will grow up with the same level of familiarity as two puppies from the same litter who are then, you know, usually separated. About eight weeks. When people get their puppies. Eight, nine weeks, something like that. Right. But they do say that puppies tend to recognize their mum up to two years after being separated. But that makes sense, doesn't it? Especially if they were weaned, but. Yeah, but the thing is, in my experience, what they tend to recognize is the same kind of dog as themselves. So my dog, he's five years old, he met one of his sisters a couple of weeks ago. He found her nice, nothing special. But when he met his cousin, he found it even better. I don't think it's. Yeah, yeah. So it's not really a question. I mean, there are. There are things that bind puppies to their mom. That's pheromones, right? So they have a certain bond. Oxytocin as well. But after a certain period of time, it's just a question of familiarity. So the two dogs who live together are just. Just very close friends qualifications. That's all it is, really. I am Doctor dog. Doctor dog. Find out more online. Round of applause for vieri. Lovely stuff. And a happy new year to you. Thank you. Likewise. 28 minutes after twelve is a time zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. We're doing knocking them off today. You might want to have a crack at the Happy New Year question, although I think I kind of dealt with it, albeit more anecdotally than knowledgeably. Happy New Year. Top draw. That's the only one left. Is it? Got anything else on the list? Top draw? No. Duncan's in Richmond. Duncan. Question or answer? Hello, mate. Question. Please carry on. I've never seen female police officers wear the tall, conical police hats. I've only seen male police officers wear them and I'd like to know why. That's quite a nice little question. Yeah, isn't it? Why do you want to know? Well, I don't know. We were talking about it over Christmas. And in this day and age, surely a uniform would be completely gender neutral. I would expect everything else seems to be the same. That might be the answer. I mean, it might be that women joined the force, a later date and a differential. Could be. I mean, the design is to make them look taller, isn't it? And by the time women joined the force. But this is all speculation and almost certainly meaningless. I shall try to find out. I shall try to find out for you. Thank you very much. I have never seen a female policeman in a. Do we know what those hats are called? I don't know. Do you still see men in. Do you still see men? Yeah, I saw one the other day walking down the high street with a big hat on. With the big conical hat? Yeah, the cone shaped hat. Cool. Well, we shall find out. Thank you. There's a picture of my granddad in his police uniform at home and he's got a mighty old hat on. But I can't remember noticing. I can't remember clocking. I think it's because I work in the West End, so I see armed officers around the place more often than unarmed officers, and they're not going to be wearing whatever the correct word is to describe what Duncan, rather winningly termed the conical hat. It's not actually conical, it's more dome shaped, isn't it? Because a cone would taper to a peak. Am I the only one who cares? But, yeah. Okay. It's 12:30 Holly Harris has the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three four, five, six. Zero six. Zero nine, seven, three. Twelve. Thirty three is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery act continues your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Although we try to do it once a week. I wonder what 2020 is going to be like. I think 2019 had more abandoned mystery hours than any other previous year because we get overtaken by events. We can't faff about doing this nonsense if there's an election on. Oh, actually, that's not true. If there's an actual election on the day, then this is precisely the sort of nonsense that we have to faff about doing. But on other days, where the news agenda has been so important that we've had to drop mystery hours I reckon 2019 probably had more abandoned mystery hours than any other year. And looking down the railroad of 2020, who knows? Who knows? All I would say is that if the people who voted for Brexit and Boris Johnson aren't happy now, when will they be? It's not perhaps the most reliable sample set, but social media would suggest that people whose entire lives have been defined by bitterness, fear, and hatred are still defined by bitterness, fear and hatred. It's almost as if the phrase you won get over it needs to be introduced into the lexicon. But, hey, Rome wasn't built in a day. 1234 is the time. Back to mystery hour. Tracy is in Torquay, lovely part of the world. Question or answer? Tracy? Oh, hello. Is a question. Carry on, actually, from my daughter. Is it okay to put her on? Of course. Well, you're her mum, you tell me. Oh, yeah. Yes. Okay. It's Elsie. She wants to ask the question. Excellent. Hello, Elsie. Hello. I was reading a book and the description was that somebody felt like they were on cloud nine. I know that it means someone is happy, but why nine? Not any other number. I like that question. How long have you been wondering about it? When were you reading the book? About, like, a couple weeks ago. How old are you? Eight. Oh, that's a shame. You're nearly nine. I could have made a really rubbish joke about you being nine and on cloud nine, but you're not, you're eight. So I probably shouldn't even have gone down this conversational avenue. I don't know what came over me. I'll see. I think I know the answer. Yeah. But I want you to tell me first what you think of show offs. I think it might be because cloud nine is a high number and happy, like, it means that you're happy. So, like, you're on a high cloud and happy is like, then it should be. Cloud 506 would be even happier than cloud nine, wouldn't it? So that's why I need to know. Do you like show offs? Um, no. No. Well, in that case, I will not try to answer this question, Elsie, because I am a massive show off and I have some children at home who are quite close to your age, and they don't like show offs either. So I will wait for someone properly clever to come along and answer your question. Why do we call it cloud nine? Yes. Yeah, fantastic. Happy new year, Elsie. Take care. Bye bye. 1236 is the time. Come on, help Elsie out. Why cloud nine? Cumulus, nimbus, stratus somethingus. Stefan is in Cardiff. Stefan? Question or answer. I've got an answer for you about the top drawer. Oh, good. Go on. Happy new year, by the way. Likewise. Same to you. In the olden days in England, in a woman's dresser room, they'd have the little dresser that's got a few drawers, a few big drawers, and then the few small drawers at the top they sit in front of with the mirror and do their makeup. Well, the top drawer is where they kept the jewelry and the valuables. So that's why top drawer means that you're high class, essentially. It seems fairly straightforward when you put it like that, doesn't it? Yeah. And your qualifications are. No qualifications in this regard. It's just something I've known for quite a while and thought I'd give a ring. Can you remember where you first picked up this nugget of information? My mother. It's got to be that, hasn't it? You keep the jewels in the top drawer. You getting where you keep your corset in the bottom drawer and your tiara in the top drawer. It's just got a logic to it. Stefan, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. I like that. 1237 is the time we've got to get Elsie's question sorted. Wayne says he's answered it three times already. But as I pointed out while talking to Elsie, Wayne, nobody likes a show off mix in Basingstoke. Mick, question or answer? Question. Carry on. How or why does chewing gum help you to concentrate? So we're jumping straight in with the premise that it does. Well, I'm sure you've experienced it yourself. Like, if you're driving or something, it just seems to sharpen your senses. It's probably the same as sticking your tongue out when you're threading a needle, isn't it? It just. It focuses you somewhere else. And I don't know. I mean, I'm not a big gum chewer, to be honest with you, but. Nor am I. But, you know, it definitely seems to help. And does it, though? I mean, I don't. I don't. I mean, if it did help, then everyone would be doing it like a lot of people do. Do it. Yeah, all right, fair point. You see a lot of sports people doing it as well, or footballers. Yeah, but that's to get the salivas flowing so that they can gob it out onto the pitch. Exactly that. Yeah, they're on. A lot of them are on spit. Bonuses. I shall try to find out for you, but I'm not going with how does chewing gum help you concentrate? I'm going with does chewing gum help you concentrate? Because that. That way, if it doesn't, we can get an answer as well as if it does. Right, okay. And if someone rings in, say, yes, it does. Obviously I will ask them for an explanation. So don't worry. I got it covered, mate. I got it covered, mate. I've got your back. 1239 is the time. Should we check in on Mick and Chris, make sure that the mike and Chris up in Evesham, make sure the old tattoo's going all right? No, we'll just crack on with mystery. Adam. What? What else have we got on the list? We're answering too many. We're answering them too quickly. We've done top draw, we've done father and son dogs. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer the question about why you never see a woman in a custodian's helmet, which I think is the fancy term for a domed police. And I've already forgotten what Duncan asked. I might have overdone it slightly over Christmas. Short term memory shot to pieces. What did. What was Duncan's question then a minute ago? Why what? Why do police wear the high hats? No, with the flipping it. Charlie's in Sutton. Charlie, question or answer? It's the answer to the policeman's custodian. The policeman tap. I'll be the judge of that. Charlie, what have you got? It's only male issue uniform. The female police officers are still issued certain types of uniform that are different to males. Why? Do we know why? It's just tradition, really. I think the custodian was our helmet, which we wore when we wore tunics back in with capes and stuff. And women weren't in the service then. Yes, and I think it's just a traditional part of the uniform, which has maintained with male police officers. Well, this is what I thought. So by the time women joined, it was no longer. Yeah, we had lost, because now, if you've seen police officers at, like, funerals and rather posh events, we still have our number one tunics, which are very smart. That's when you would wear your custodian all the time. And female PCs are issued the same number one dress uniform, but they have one hat. Female PCs, but a male police officer has two hats, one the flat cap, which you see them in more often than not. And then when a police officer is at a public event or on foot patrol or around tourists, you'll see them in their custodian. But if you're responding in vehicles or out and about doing more rigorous police work, you will wear your flat cap because it fits inside a vehicle. The custodian doesn't fit inside of a police car and it's just impractical for getting in and out. Of course it is. So, I mean, to be honest, the privilege, a practical thing. And what was it designed for in the first place, do you know? Well, it is a helmet, it is armored. Yeah, but you could. It doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be a foot high, does it? No, it's just. I think it's tradition. It's just simply. There must be. There must have been a reason. I mean, you could stand on it to see over walls and see if there was any bad behavior going on on the other side. I'm being a little bit glib, but there must have been some sort of rationale to it. No? If there is, I've never been told. It is purely. It's quite a traditional thing. The tourists, the public, the especially people like your Americans and your Japanese, they love to see a police officer in that because it brings back the days of a cape and the victorian police officer. But like, I work in west London, the outer west London. Yes. Probably don't ever wear it because I'm in a vehicle. So I have a flat cap which fits inside a vehicle. And if you never. If you weren't in a vehicle and you just didn't fancy wearing it, you'd be perfectly free to wear your flat cap, would you? Yeah. Are you ever required. Are you ever required to wear the full helmet? Yes. If you are up in, say, central London, policing around the mall, around Buckingham palace, any public engagement, any. If you're in like a high profile area and there's tourism around, especially then, yes, you will be expected to wear it. Any foot patrol. I can find you in a crowd. I can find you in a crowd. That might be it. There you go. I mean, that makes more sense than anything else. Makes more sense than keep sandwiches underneath it or standing on top of it to look over walls. I could find you in a crowd. Or pregnant woman weeing in it. Is the other one. Is that a thing? Is that. Or is that a myth? I think it's a bit of a myth. I mean, the one about taxi drivers. Taxi drivers offside rear wheel is true. They are by law allowed to have a waz next to the. Next to the back wheel of their car. But I don't think all pregnant women are allowed to ask you for your helmet if they find themselves caught short in a public space? I have seen it answered to a colleague of mine that have been in the job a long time and he said, it's only legal if you still have your policeman's cape, so you can wrap it round her to prevent indecent exposure. If that's an answer for you, it is qualifications like we haven't already worked out. I'm a serving police officer in the Met. Police. Round of applause for Charlie, please. 1243 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973. Bertie Wooster introduced one of my girls to PG Wodehouse and one of my nephews over Christmas. There are few gifts greater than an introduction to the works of PG Wodehouse that will keep you company for your entire life and keep you really delightful company as well. Funny, uplifting, warm. And I mention it because I think it was Bertie Wooster who famously stole a policeman's helmet after, I think, was it at the Henley Regatta or was it at Royal Ascot and. And as a result, spent a. Spent a night in the cells. 1244 is the time. Trish is in car. Short and Trish, question or answer? It is a question. James. Carry on, Trish. Happy new year. Happy new year to you. Thank you. Why do we. We say someone has kicked the bucket when they die now? I mean, first of all, it is new year. New me. More calmer, less drama. So I'm not going to point out in a slightly irritated fashion that we're only supposed to have one origin of phrase question per week on mystery hour, because I'm not sure any of my colleagues are actually listening to me anyway, so it would be a waste of breath and energy to point that out. Secondly, this is one of the ones that you can't really go definitive on, but I know what the best available answer is. I'll go on, then. It's. It's not pleasant, Trish. But then you're the one that. Well, what do you mean? Oh, no, you've run in with a question about death. You kind of expected kittens and flowers. Well, it's to do with hanging people. Oh, is it? Yeah. Because what you need to do to get the noose over their head, they need to be higher than what they would be when you want the noose to go about. It's, it's, it's. It's morbid business. So stand on a chair. Traditionally, stand on a bucket kick. The bucket is curtains. Oh, dear. Right. I thought it was something to do with Buckaroo. Do you remember the game? You thought that the fray, the figure of speech, kicking the bucket as a synonym for dying, had something to do with a 1970s game made of plastic? Genuinely did well, do you know, Tricia, I admire your honesty. Well, I go now. This is the point in proceedings where if we were having a more serious conversation, I'd say, you do realize you're on national radio. I'm going. Right. I'm gonna go and have a glass of wine. It's 1245. Yeah, why not? It's the holidays and I'll take that. Round of applause. Thank you, Trish. Happy new year. 1245. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. No Tory. Sacred cows were going to get in the way of Boris Johnson winning power. What traits must the next labor leader have to be in with a chance? Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1249. I know the answer to cloud nine because we have done it before, but still they shall wait until someone else provides the answer because Elsie, quite understandably, at the tender age of eight, has already worked out that show offs are a pain in the proverbial. So I didn't show off. I can tell how much that rankles. Does chewing gum aid concentration? And when do we stop saying, happy new year? Catherine is in Beaconsfield. Catherine, question or answer? It's answer. Carry on. It's to do with whether chewing gum is calming or not. Would that, would we file calming under concentrate helps you concentrate? I suppose we would. Well, concentrate and calming both. Fair enough. Yeah. Because you have to be calm in order to concentrate. Probably, yes. And so I'm really glad it was a yes no question because I do have some of the answer, but I wouldn't have the whole answer as to why it is so. My daughter's autistic and all autistic people have problems with sensory integration, and we all have sensory integration, whether we're autistic or not. It's about how all our senses work together. And so for people who have autism, their senses aren't working well together. So you have to find other ways to compensate, to sort of get things as close to being balanced. Or in kilter, if that's the word. You can have off kilter. Can you have in kilter? Yeah. Anyway. Yes, on kilter. There you go. So when you chew, your body receives. There's pressure around your mouth and in your jaw and your body receives that, and that is calming because pressure is calming for the body. So if you have a massage and people press your body hard, that is calming. And you feel that all over your body. If somebody runs your hand lightly over you, it's alerting and it sets you going. Yeah. So if you chew bread or anything chewy or crunch ice, any order will give your mouth stimulation, calm you down. If you're not bothered about that, then you can, you know, what was being uncom, then you can concentrate. It probably does help those, I mean, those of us who aren't on the spectrum to concentrate better or to calm down. Absolutely. I mean, I'm not. I've been a permanent peninsula my entire life. Have you? But you want to know something weird? That's a world exclusiveness. At some point, I don't know if you spent much time on social media over the break, but a lot of people were doing their achievements of the decade. Oh, yeah. I couldn't think of any. But do you know what I realized? I'd already realized this, but I don't know when at some point in the last decade, I stopped biting my nails. Oh, well, there you go. What you've done is you've replaced it with something else. Probably it gives you the same. So well done. No, thank you. Well, I just. I don't know when it was. And I'm a mass. I was historically a mass, not just a nail biter, but I used to shred my cuticles with my front teeth and everything. I had the full shebang. And then I suddenly noticed at some point last year that at some point in the last x years, I had ceased to bite my nails. Yeah. I mean, some of that will be because obviously, habits are habits and they're psychological, but probably underpinning that something's changed in how your senses were working together and you didn't think that need. Do you know what it is? It's probably when I adopted more calmer, less drama as my catchphrase. Oh, well, there you go. That's a good mantra for 2020, I can tell you. But chewing on a gum is very different. Biting a nails is a sign of nervous chewing gum. But then if you do it. But if you bite your nail, yes, you. As you bite on the nail, you get all that sensation through your fingertips all the way. And it's so. It's all. It's all coming at the same thing. Wow. Round of applause. Thank you. I look forward to seeing your longer nails and your daughters can paint them and, yes, well, I am toying with the idea. Going for a manicure, actually. But, you know, I take my metro sexuality one. One manicure at a time, 1253 at a time. Now, it hasn't actually popped up on mystery app, but a lot of people wonder, what do MP's do after they've retired from the house, or indeed been retired by the electorate? I can't answer for all of them, but I can tell you that Stephen Pound, who until very recently was the Labor MP for Ealing north, he's decided to fill his salad days post parliament by ringing mystery hours. Stephen, how lovely to hear from you. Absolute delight to hear from you. I have to say, you're filling this sort of the great lonely wastes of time that I have before me. I am actually in pantomime tonight. The Holy Cross players in Greenford, if you happen to be passing scout. Round of applause. Round of applause for Stephen Pounder. What are you getting in there early? Normally, I get a little bit irritated by people using my radio show as an opportunity to shamelessly plug their own personal projects, but. But two things occur to me. Number one, you're an old mate of mine, and number two, there's presumably a charitable angle to this. You're not relaunching as Baron Hardup. Indeed. No, no, no, in Robin Hood. And you've got to realize this is a pantomime because I am ostensibly King Richard, but I am happy known as Big Dick. But it's that sort of a pantomime. But you'll enjoy it. Where is it again? For people who weren't paying attention, the Peter Channel scout hut on Rockware Avenue, Greenford. So today the Peter Channel House scout, tomorrow the London Palladium. Listen, matey, I have to say, you're brilliant. On the boat race night, when catsmeet potter Pirbright and Oofie Prosser teamed up with Bertie to pinch a policeman's helmet on Boat Race night, and they were hauled off to Bow street. But on a less cheerful note, kicking. Kicking the bucket. I'm afraid, matey, you got it wrong. Seriously, had your interpretation been correct, it would have been the bucket would have been kicked, but in fact, it's you kick the bucket and the answer lies in black pudding. Oh, go on. I mean. Well, it's. Maybe. It's probably a little gory, but what used to happen was when a pig was slaughtered and it was hung by his trotters over a bucket to catch the blood to make the black pudding. And when the throat was cut, the spasmodic, the lower trotters or the back legs kicked the bucket. And so when you say you kicked the bucket, it means you're dead, you've been killed. And that's where it comes from. Qualifications? I love black pudding. I love black pudding as well. I didn't know. I did not know that. I particularly like white pudding as well. I was about to ask you about that. How would you describe the difference, but just in purely in taste terms, between a black pudding and a white pudding? Black pudding is a heavier one and it's actually the best. Black pudding actually comes from Scotland. That's all we know. The best white, indeed. Is that right? Mcleod's famous long black sausage. It's an extraordinary thing. It's. A friend of mine, Angus MacNeil, is an MP for up there, sends me one once every six months. But white pudding is, of course, you know, the staple of the Ulster Fry, the most famous heart attack on a plate breakfast the world's ever known. Fantastic. Well, you've got a round of applause, but on a serious note, what are you going to do with your newly liberated time? Well, this morning at 07:00 I said Greenford station, handing out leaflets for the mayor of London. I got one of them outside Gunnersbury this morning as well. Did you really? Well, you know exactly what I've been up to. I'm doing a bit of that. It's also, I mean, I'm reacquainting myself with my family, whose names I've forgotten. Yes, and speaking of forgettable names, who do you fancy for the next leader? Or are you not going to answer that question yet? You can now. You've got no dog in the race, you're retired. I have no skin in the game anymore, so to speak, except as a citizen of this country. I backed Yvette Cooper last time. Yvette Cooper is the grown up in the room. She's sensible, she's sane, she's articulate and she can actually carry the fight. I'm not entirely convinced that continuity, Corbyn is the answer to the. To the nation's woes, but Yvette will be my choice, though, sadly, she may decide she can't. Well, that was the. That was certainly the timbre of some of the reports this morning. But in response to a single opinion poll, she'll also, of course, have her own measures out there. Stephen Pound, I'm not going to make a habit of allowing you to introduce matters political into mistrian, because for many people, it's a. It's an oasis of relief from the harder news agenda with which we concern ourselves the rest of the time. But I wish you such a happy retirement. Semi retired. Stephen Powell's got too much energy. Retirement seems like the wrong word to apply, but it's lovely to hear from you. 1257 is the time. We haven't done cloud nine. We haven't done. It's just cloud nine. Well, I've kind of done happy new year. I think my answer. I'll ask Sheila Fogarty that one. When do you stop saying happy new year to people? This weekend. Yeah. Yeah. First week. Yeah. You're allowed to do it more than just because I know you were back at work earlier than me. But what if we didn't come back till Monday? Would we say happy new year then on air? Actually, not on air. No. Really? On first sight of you, maybe I would say. You wouldn't say it on air? I think I would if I was going. I think I might have done. I'm not going to now because I'm here. It's Thursday, but I might have. Maybe, maybe, maybe. I don't have a strict rule about this, James. No, no one does. But that's, you know, that's the best answer we've got. Phillips in Woking, just to clear the board for the first mystery hour of the decade. Philip, question or answer? Hi, James. I'm actually in Vanessa for Christmas at the moment. I do apologize. I've got an answer to cloud nine. Carry on. So there was an international cloud atlas that registered ten different types of cloud. And the 9th one, which I'm pretty sure was coming numbers, was the highest one. And therefore, if you're at the highest level, happiness, cloud nine, the highest cloud measured is number nine, the 9th stage. And therefore that's as high as you can get, is cloud nine qualifications. Last year, I was on a ten month trip away with the army and I listened to all seven years of mystery hour podcast back to back. Oh, man alive. Does it get better or worse or does it stay the same? I mean, you promise to laugh out load more every week. This week was definitely buckaroo, but I would say it's bit, you know, I enjoy it. I also feel a little bit like I've stolen this round of applause if I get one. No, you haven't. That's the best qualification ever, I suppose. Listen to seven years worth of me. That's an astonishing achievement. What a wonderful start to the new decade, Philip. It'll stand you in excellent stead. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow. Morning. From ten. As you may have gathered, Sheila Fogarty is in the building. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. From three today, the army is trying new tactics to recruit young men and women into their ranks. But do young people in sufficient numbers still have what it takes? The discipline and sense of duty to serve in our armed forces? We talked about Ken Clark yesterday on my programme. A conservative MP. MP for half a century. And even that didn't insulate him from the political brutality that Boris Johnson was prepared to employ to maximize his chances of getting into power. It worked, of course. He now has power Theresa May could only dream of. But what of Labor? Does labor have an individual man or woman prepared to do the same? A year ago, the Tory party was eating itself alive over Brexit. Not anymore. What traits does the next Labour leader know need to have to be in with a shout.