The weight of the world?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, and relax. Hey. Good Lord, what a welcome oasis of calm and frivolity. Mister Howe. Well, it is every week, isn't it? The grimmer the news, the more relief we enjoy on this hour of fun and frolics. What is it, by the way? You may not know. It's a bit daft, to be honest with you. God knows how it's managed to survive for so many years, let alone spawn a real life board game available in all the usual retailers and also from mysteryhour dot co dot Uk. Dot. Someone rings in with a question and then someone else rings in with the answer. And I use these contributions as foils to launch hilarious flights of fancy. And no, I don't really, but that is all it is. Someone rings in with a question and someone else rings in with an answer. And if you're thinking, well, that sounds a bit rubbish, you'd be wrong, as you're about to discover by staying tuned to James O'Brien's mystery hour. Did I mention the board game? I did. Did I mention you can have one? I did. Well, I did. But that would involve buying it from Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Or winning it. Oh, yes, you could win it right now, today, by 01:00 today, you could be the imminent recipient of the mystery hour board game. All you have to do is be my favorite contributor of the week. That's it. The full terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK. I think we'll just crack on, shall we? Because, I mean, everyone knows what it is. If you don't know what it is, you'll soon work it out. You get a question right, you win a round of applause if your qualifications for getting the question right are unbelievably apposite. Is that the right word? Apposite? Apposite. Then you get Aureliota, a tribute recorded for us by the late, great Ray Liotta some years ago. And if none of this makes the blindest bit of sense, then I'm just gonna. You're just gonna have to take it on trust. You're gonna have to take it on trust. Obviously you're not allowed to look anything up in pursuit of answers. That's why I ask what your qualifications are. Doesn't have to be, I've got a PhD in applied mathematics. It could simply be, I saw it on the telly last night, or occasionally, and embarrassingly, I've heard it on mystery hour before or even more embarrassingly and occasionally, I was playing the mystery hour board game last night and this question's actually in the ball game. I can't believe you've forgotten both the question and the answer. Given that your ugly mug is on the box. That has also happened on occasion and will no doubt happen again. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Let's crack on with Phil in Penrith. Phil, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. It's just that when you put food out for the birds. Yes. How come they come so quickly? That is a brilliant question. If you're by the sea and you put bread out for the seagulls, there's none you can see in the sky, there's none you can see around. And within about half a minute or a minute, there's about 20 or 30. Yeah. It's incredible, isn't it? I think I have actually thought of this myself, this question. I think I've wondered it because do they have, like, sentry seagulls or sentry pigeons that are sort of constantly flying around looking for food and then as soon as they see some, they send a message back to the rest of the flock? Food lads. Yeah, exactly. And they all fly in because you could. You could have an empty sky, couldn't you? And then throw. Throw a few breadcrumbs in the. On the. On the floor and the next thing you know, it's like something out of an Alfred Hitchcock film. I like it. I love it. I love that quest. Thank you, Phil. That's an early lead, actually. The simple quality. No, I really like that question because it's. My favorite questions are the ones that when you ask it, everybody listening will go, oh, yeah. You might not make quite that noise, but you take my point, Phil. Thank you. Tom's in Ongar. Tom, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Ear hair. Oh, Tom, please. Oh, but look, you know, I've just turned 35 and, you know, my hairline's got a phobia in the eyebrows and stuff like that, and suddenly I've got ear hair and I'm just like. I don't get sort of. In terms of evolution, how is it more helpful to have hairy ears when you get older? Well, I mean, there may not be a. There may not be an evolutionary advantage to it. It just happens. And not everything. I tell you what it might be because it happens when you're older and we're generally doing less procreating and reproducing the older we get. I know men retain the capability of fathering children until they die. But if. Maybe it's a throwback to when we were covered in hair and then there became a sexual advantage to not being hairy, but it has a sort of expiry date and we start sprouting hair from unlikely places as we become less sexually active. So there's no evolutionary advantage at all? It's the opposite. There's an evolutionary advantage to not having hairy ears, which we grow out of. Okay, so as I'm getting older, what you're saying is that I should be procreating less? No, I'm not saying that you should be procreating less. I'm saying that the chances are you will be procreating less. Tom, there's no should or could about it. It's more of a would, if you pardon the pun. Sorry. It does work. So I can't agree with you. Oh, well, I'll find out. Why do we have ear hair? Is the question. I think that evolution might be the. A bit of a red herring on that one. My apologies also for that rare. That rare foray into carry on style humour, which I don't think Tom noticed. Mary's in Keighley. Mary, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. How come some people are really good at imitating somebody's accent or voice in general and other people aren't? What happens in the brain to facilitate that? That's a great question. Are you. Are you good at it? I don't think I am. Really? No, I don't think so. I can. Yeah, I can do some. I certainly can't do impersonations. I can't do, you know, like a Rory Bremner or a John Colshaw type of actually sounding like the person who they're aping. Have they got something specific going on? It's a great question. Can you learn it? Could you be taught how to do him impersonation, do you think? I don't think you could. I think it is something to do with your brain. Like you've got a tape recorder in your brain that works differently from everybody else's. Yes. It just intrigues me. No, I like it a lot. It intrigues me, too. Let's find out. What is it in the brain that allows some people to do impersonations in particular? But it's probably the same skill, isn't it, to be very, very good at accents? It's just even better. It's like gear. So the third gear would be accents and then the fourth gear would be actual impersonations. Accents. But I can't do impersonations. I love it. Thank you, Mary. We shall. We shall endeavor to find out for you. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Neil's in South Hams. Neil, question or answer? Both. No, you can only do what you've cleared with the producer. I've listened to you for a while now. James. The dinosaurs. Yes. How do we know what colored dinosaurs are? We don't. This kind. Yeah, but you see, this kind of stems from my son. I've got a two year old son who's very much into his dinosaurs. And I mean, like, he can name them and correct you if you are wrong, if you think it's so. He's really into them. And this. So, you know, we've been building a collection for him and, you know, we've been getting the usual khaki browns and orange and greens and what have you, and then recently we've got some for him. And a car called Dantasaurus was orange with blue spots. Now, the likelihood it was actually that color, I would say, is slim for camouflage reasons, but it kind of. I thought about this last week and I rang and I didn't get on, but, yeah, like, how do we know? How do we know what? Because if you watch anything about dinosaurs on any platform, they will all be varying in colors. Yeah, I mean, you're right. You've answered the question yourself. Is that. I mean, there was something, because this has come up before. There's something about feathers that they managed from a fossil feather to work out what color the feather had been, and I think it was black. But a lot of the discovered fossils offer no clue as to what color the actual beast would have been. So then you've already done it. You extrapolate and think what is likely to be the case, and it would be that they could blend in for, as you say, camouflage reasons. But the tyrannosaurus rex would have no need for camouflage reasons. And then evolution, you'd think, well, they've come from probably something amphibious, and you rarely encounter anything amphibious. That's not a sort of murky brown or green. And Hollywood's probably got a lot to do with what we think as well. But unless you find sort of fossilized pigment, so to speak, you're not going to know what colored dinosaurs were. So it's a boring answer to an excellent question, but a lot of the time you just. You just don't know. The answer, by the way, was 42. That's the meaning of life. That's well played. I said it to a lady who answered the phone and she didn't get it. So they're a lot younger than us, my colleagues. I did say to her, yeah. I did say to him, I'd have to be first on for that to work. No, see. No, I know. I don't think you did. Twelve, four. Don't give people ideas. I'll take the round of applause for that. It's not. It's not my most proud round of applause, but it. But they all count. Neil, take care. Joe's in Bexley Heath. Joe, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Joe. If a married woman has another man. If a married man has another woman. It's a mistress. She is, yes. If a married woman has another man, what is she? Just lucky? It's just a lover, isn't it? Is that what it's called? I don't think there's a particular term, actually. I presume mistress comes from the fact that in the olden days, the man would assume some sort of financial responsibility for his mistress. Certainly royals would, wouldn't they? And so it did. It afforded a form of status, whereas for a married woman to have a bit on the side, that wouldn't have historically involved her being financially responsible or helping out the man. I'm not going to take a round of applause because there may be a word for it. I just don't know what it is. I don't think there's. So it's a male mistress is what you're talking about. Really? Yes. Whether it's. Whether it's the lover of a man or a woman. If the lover. If the extramarital lover is a man. I don't think there's a word for it. Why do you want to know? Why do you want to know? It's always just been on my mind. So. And it's a question. Yeah. So someone might know, but I don't. Don't be downcast. If there isn't anything to fill in the gap. Fancy man. Would you go for fancy man, Joe? No, I wouldn't. Why not? I think that. No, it's such a defined term. Mistress for another woman. Why is it a man is not got a term? There are two questions there. Why isn't there a term for the male extramarital lover? I think I've answered it, but as I say, I'll leave it on the board because it could throw up something interesting. 1215 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 17 minutes after twelve is the time listening to James O'Brien on LBC, mystery hour continues. How did birds know where the food is? Because there are no birds in the sky. Throw some breadcrumbs on the pavement and then, whoosh, down they come. How did they cut? Do they smell it? I mean, it's a good question. Why do men grow ear hair? What's that about? Is there any answer to that question? It may be one of life's great unanswerables. What is it about some brains that allows their owners to do imitation of accents? Or even more impressively, of entire voices? You know, like Rory Bremner or John Coleshill? What colour were dinosaurs done? That one. And we will never do that one again. I hereby pledge it. And what do you call a male mistress? And serious answers only, please. 1218 is because there are plumbing. Hundreds of unserious ones coming in on my inbox. Lizzie's in Brighton. Lizzie, question or answer? It's a question, please. Yes. What is with flying ant day? Seems to be a day in the UK where all the flying ants come out. Is it every year? Have we had it yet? Have you had it yet? We have. When was it? Yeah, it was early July, because we were away in France and I got lots of texts saying, you're missing flying ant day. Gosh. Where do they come from? It's mating, isn't it? Isn't it the day that they come out and mate? No idea. But then where are all the ants with wings for the rest of the year? You understand? I know. I do know this. I just. It's. I don't. I think they just live in nests now. That can't be right, because they need to eat, don't they? So, no. All right, then why is it. What's it all about? Flying ant day. Yeah, and we missed it. Did I miss it as well as I on holiday? I just don't remember it. No, we don't. Keith doesn't celebrate it. Lizzie. A lucky escape. Escape, indeed. It's against his beliefs. Okay, flying ante. We like that. Give us a simple explanation, an entry level explanation. Martin's in Warwick. Martin, question or answer? Martin. No, we've got that. I'm just trying to work out who's in the lead at the moment. The number you need, by the way. You won't get through at the minute, but there should be someone free in a minute. Martin, for example. We'll push him off. Zero. 345-606-0973 Mark's in Storrington. Mark, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on, sir, carry on. Seagulls. Yes, all birds. All birds, I think. And, well, yeah, all birds, but particularly seagulls, I think the question was about seagulls specifically, wasn't it? Yeah, I guess the. Apart from being able to see from a mile away, they can smell from 3 miles away. Shots. Yeah. You serious? Yeah. Wow. Yeah. So you won't be able to see them, obviously, because they're so far away, but they will see you and they will certainly smell you and they know. I mean, even something relatively innocuous like bread, you don't think of bread as having a particularly pun. A seagull can smell bread from 3 miles away. I don't know about bread specifically. It could smell a fish from 3 miles away, but then maybe it could smell bread from 500 yards away. It wouldn't need the full 3 miles, would it? Or fish and chips. Fish and chips, oh, yeah. Or a pasty. Yeah. Qualifications? Qualifications. That was actually information imparted to me by a guy who's sadly no longer with us. But he was an old sea dog, a salty old sea dog. Is that right? Yeah. He used to be the harbour master down at Chichester in west Sussex. Oh, how lovely. That'll do. I like that answer. I mean, I guess in a way, having an exceptional sense of smell was bound to be the answer in a way, wasn't it? Because. And eyes, so they can see what it is. How else would you know? And they're just zone in on it. I mean, maybe someone can add to it, but I doubt it. I think you've gone definitive and it means you get around of the course. Nice work, mark. Many thanks. 1221 David's in Hemel Hempstead. David, question or answer? Hello, James. That's a question. Please carry on. Right, photo finishes. I was watching the Olympic, the Commonwealth Games. I noticed on the sprint finishes that the photo is always blurred. It's like a distortion of the runners. They look like Mister tickle sort of staggering home with sort of elongated feet and their knees go the wrong way. Oh, do they? I was wondering if someone can explain why it doesn't look like a normal photo, where it's as you see it. Why is it blurred and distorted? Well, it's not a photo, is it? Or is it. Is it not just a frozen, um, piece of film? Um. I don't know. I mean, it must be something to do with time, hasn't it? A time blur, maybe, but it's called a photo finish. It is called a photo. It doesn't look like a. And it would have been a photo once, I suppose, before video cameras were invented. So you just have someone on the line, like trying to take a picture to see what foot came over first. But haven't you just answered the question? Is it not. Is it not just going to be that the shutter speed or whatever you call it is? I don't know, I'm not a photographer. Why do photo finishes look all blurry? How do they. How do they work? Can someone explain it? I like it. Okay, thank you very much, governor. Thank you, David. Carry on. Have a good day. Claire's in rugby. Claire, question or answer? Oh, it's a question. Please carry on, Claire. Well, from what I understand, horses can't be sick. Well, where did you get this information from? Well, I've always heard it that they can't vomit. So if they eat something, you should have said the horse's mouth then, Claire. Well, they can't throw up or get rid of something that's bad for them, like we can. Or cats and dogs. Well, I think they can get sick. I mean, otherwise all the vets would be put out of business. Equine. Equine vets. No, no, no. I mean they can't vomit. Oh, they can't be sick. Yes. As opposed to be sick. Yeah. Sorry. And I wonder why. And obviously, you know, with evolution, why would that have happened? Well, no, hang on, you. I mean, it's got. It's all got a bit complicated now. We can't bring evolution. Haven't they? Are there ruminants on they horses? Have they gone? They're not ruminants. Oh, I don't think they are, anyway. It's just that I've always been told that they can't actually throw up. Yeah. If they eat something bad, like we can, and cats and dogs. And I wondered why. Okay. No, it's a good question. I mean, it may be the answer is actually the other way around and it's more remarkable to be able to vomit. Well, possibly, but with evolution. And what would be, you know, making them continue as a species, why would that happen? Well, because they only eat grass, you see. So the likelihood of them poisoning themselves is pretty slim. That's possible. Whereas other mammals eat all sorts of things, so the likelihood of us poisoning ourselves is quite high. Therefore, developing the ability to vomit after you've eaten something that's hazardous bestows an evolutionary advantage that horses don't need because they only ever eat grass and oats. Oh, that's possible. Never thought of that. Sorry, that's what I'm here. That's what I'm here for. Claire, that's. There might be something, but there must be, and we will find out for you. Why can't horses vomit? Okay, thank you. I love it. Zero. 345-606-0973 straight from the horse's mouth. Or not. That was Keith's joke, that, by the way, credit where credit's due. Max is in Braintree. Max. Question or answer? It is an answer. James, carry on. The flying ant day. Oh, yes. So you're half correct with the mating side of things, but the real purpose is to actually create new colonies of ants. So you get two different sizes of flying ants. You get those big ones. You see, the ones you notice more often, they're virgin queens. Virgin queens. Virgin queens. And you get the smaller ones, which are males, but they all take off. They'll mate. Once the queen's mated, she's going to land and chew off her own wings. Yeah. So she doesn't fly anymore. Wow. She'll then just go off into the ground, find a tiny little nook, and she's got enough fat reserves to kind of keep herself going without finding food. She'll lay a few eggs. Those eggs will then hatch into ants. They'll go out and start bringing food back to her. And that is the start of a new colony. Where are they the rest of the time? So the big ants nest, you'll see in the ground, will basically be spending the year creating thousands of eggs to create all these queens that can then go off and fly. Most of them get eaten by birds, so. So the flying ant, the flying ant is the queen? Yeah. Well, those large ones you see on the wing. But ants don't normally have wings. So do they only grow wings for a couple of days a year, then, or am I being thick? No, no, no. So they're entirely different. And when you see the normal ants about their workers, it's a bit like bees. They're in the same kind of family. So you have a queen bee, worker bees, drone bees. Oh. So in the nest. So there's a hierarchy in an ants nest, then. And the flying ants are like the praetorian guard, and the ants we see are like the worker ants, but they all live in the same nest. That's it. So what do the flying ants do the rest of the time? Why do you never see a flying ant the rest of the time, then? So they basically emerge, fly, mate, chew off their own wings, and then that queen will stay underground, giving birth for the rest of her life. You'll never see her again. She forms a new colony. So. And what about the male flying ant? Their sole purpose in life is to mate. So they may die. That's the end of them. So they're just underground. The rest of the time they're just chilling and living in the net. It's a big build up for them to hatch. So the colony is growing. It's growing, it's growing. They're laying all these eggs at work at the moment. I'm catching lizards and a lot of the mats, I check. I've seen the queens forming, so I've seen these enormous eggs in piles. I've watched them start to emerge. How exciting. What? Brilliant answer. And you've just nudged us towards the next question, which is, qualifications, please? Yeah. Insect geek, member of the entomological society. I keep ants, so you can actually be super geeky. If you're a kid. You get a test tube. Yeah. A couple of milliliters of water in the bottom of it. Stick a bit of cotton wool in there. If you find a flying ant that's already got her wings gone, you can pop her in there. What do you mean? If you find a flying ant that's already got her wings gone? That's a bit like those recipes that say, first catch your hair. It's easier than you think. If you go out flying ant, then look at the ground, you'll see big ants with no wings. If you pop one in a test tube, within a few weeks you'll start laying eggs and you can start your own ants. Did you go where? Where did you go to find it? Did you say? Just on flying ant day, you know, when they. Oh, on flying ant, they. Sorry. Yeah, of course. So on flying ant day, you're in with quite a good chance of finding one. That's it. Have a look on the floor. And there will be ones which shoot their wings off fresh. I like. Oof. And is there any way of knowing in advance when flying ant day is going to be? I think it was July 8 this year. Yeah. No, they tend to synchronize themselves based on the weather and climate and all kinds of things like that. Wow. There you go. A big round of applause for you, Matt. What are you doing with the lizards at the moment? I'm working for an ecology job, translocating lizards from a potential building site to another one. We've got a lot of lizards in this country. There's a few. The common lizards, which are the ones on this site, are actually pretty common and widespread. They're so small and fast in the grass you don't notice them. But obviously we've got sand lizards as well, which are really rare. We got. I love it when people like you say, obviously. A round of applause for that. That was absolutely fascinating. Well played, mate, and we'll speak again. There's something, isn't there, about people with a real passion for their subject? That is. It's contagious. I was thinking it last week when Brian Cox was recording full disclosure with me and I went to see a show at the Royal Opera house and he makes things you didn't have any previous interest in. Interesting. Fred Dibner had that. I don't know if you ever saw his programs from the same part of the world as. As Brian Cox. And Max has got it too, in spades. It's coming out to 12:30 squeezing one more. Lily's in Portsmouth. Lily. Question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on to the male mistress. Yes. It's called a paramour. Really? Yeah. That can be a woman as well, though, can't it? It could be, but I think it's mostly attached to a male mystery. You know, we never have arguments on mystery, but I think. I think. I think you're wrong. I don't think it is. I think paramore can apply equally to men and women. It possibly could. It is the extramarital lover. That's the technical term. That is a correct term to use, but I don't think it's specific to men. I've seen it. I've read it in a trashy novel and it was used to describe the male. Yeah. Well, I'm going to give you a round of applause because. Because it is a word. It is a word that Joe will be able to use moving forward, but it is not. I don't think it's specifically masculine. The paramour. Thank you, Lily. 1230 is the time. Amelia Cox is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 33 is the time. Mystery hour continues. Leonard is in Berkhamstead. Leonard, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. You've had a variation of this question in the past, but I've wondered. I've always wondered it. Before Julius Caesar and Emperor Augustus, there were, well, 1st 810 months in the year and then eleven, then twelve. And how did that affect a the seasons? Because seasons would then, you know, there would be a 6th of the year missing from what we consider a year now. So would seasons then it wouldn't matter. That wouldn't matter. The pie has stayed the same size. It's just cut into more slices. And the season. The season is a different demarcation of slices. So there's four seasons, whether there's ten months or twelve months. Yeah, but if there's. You may not have been able to write a poem. Yeah. Gone takes up three months, you know, but it does 90 days, more or less. Well, how? That's when you split it into four. So it takes 90 days. It still takes 90 days. You've just given it a different name. The year. It takes ten months. No, I don't. Then next year on January, then you'll start a season at a different point, if you see what I mean. No, because they shared the days out. The year was still the same length. They just rearranged the month. Oh, really? Yeah. Because the length of a year is defined by lunar cycles, isn't it, or something? Yeah, no, exactly. I was just wondering whether there was. If a year had fewer days in it when there were ten months. Listen, I just asked the question because my head hurts now. Okay, fine. That was my question. Did the seasons become changeable within the year? Because there were few when we went up. But we did. Did we go up, though, from ten to twelve? Didn't they just make the months named after themselves longer? Didn't they just steal days from other months? Well, I don't know the answer. I just know that this is. This is the most confusing question that we've ever had in our lives. Well, I know, but, hey, someone listening might have understood it. Just because I haven't doesn't mean that it was incomprehensible. Leonard. Okay. All right. Well, thank you, James. No, you're very welcome. And hopefully someone will ring in and answer it and do us all a favor. So I'm going to write that down as years, months and seasons. Leonard, if you can help Leonard out, you know the number it is 1235. Mike's in Bishop Storford. Mike, question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on. It's for your hairy ears. I don't have hairy ears. How dare you? I trimmed them over yesterday. Well, anyone who's listening with hairy ears, basically everybody has ear hair. The point of it is to clear earwax out of your ear canal. But testosterone causes hair to appear or become coarser and thicker. And as men age, testosterone can accumulate. Therefore, that's why older men appear to have hairier ears than everyone else. So the hairs are always theirs. It's just because they've just become a bit thicker over time. Exactly. Similar as to why old men sometimes have hairy nose, nasal hairs as well. The same thing. Not, not. You don't have to be that old. Right. Well, not necessarily. Also, I. You can use the same trimmer, actually, for ears and noses. I'll take your word for that. How old are you? I'm 31. And you're not in the zone yet? Not quite. I'm getting there. Do you know how it happened? Do you know how it happened? Tell me. It's quite a moment, actually, in the sort of milestones of life, the hairdresser or the barber tells you, I've had my barber do my eyebrows for me. Yeah. No. At some point in the not too distant future, your barber will say, would you like me to do your ears? And you think, what's he talking about? And then you realize he's talking about ear hair. And then you say, oh, yes, please, and a little bit of your dyes. I'll keep an eye out for that day. Have a round of applause. In the meantime, 1237 is the time. Ear hair. That's Tom's question answered. Rachel's in Brackley in Northamptonshire, a stalwart of the National League North. Rachel, are you a fan? Unfortunately not. That's outrageous. You play in the same league, you could watch Kidderminster Harriers play this season. Yeah, we had the same conversation last week, and I hadn't heard of football then, either. I'm so sorry. You're making me sound quite boring. Last week? Yeah. We're talking about working from home. Oh, no, we were. You're right. It wasn't during mystery out, was it? That's why I got confused. 29 August. I think we're in. We're in Brackley. Anyway, carry on. I answer about finish line cameras. Oh, yes. So they're used in everything, every sport, where someone crosses a line and you need to see the order of them. So it's common in athletics and motorsport. It's a still image camera. It looks at a very, very narrow window and when it detects movement, it starts capturing still images, which it then stitches together so you can see an overall picture. Oh, wow. And so the reason that people can look a bit wonky, or perhaps cars can look a bit wonky, is because then moving through time, you're capturing that single point and everyone's moving at a different speed, of course. So if you're moving slowly, you'll appear really, like, wide, or as if you're moving really quickly. Then you'll just, like, wish past and seem like a really narrow object. Qualifications? I used to be a Formula one timekeeper, so I used to rig and operate the cameras. Really? Yeah. Why did you stop? There's a lot of Formula one in Northamptonshire, isn't there? A lot of links? Yeah, there is. I guess, like any job, really, pros and cons. And the list of outcomes outweighs the list of praise. You move on. How long did you do it for? Six years. How many Formula one timekeepers are there, generally? They normally take half a dozen. Like for the. Like the different. Like the main system, the backup system. Obviously, you can't really have a failure. And do you work at a specific track or do you tour with the. They take them around with them and tour to every track. So it's the same team that goes everywhere. So you went to every Formula one race when you were a timekeeper? Yeah. And then set up the camera, took several thousand pictures, and then took it down again, traveled to the next place. I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta. Oh, thank you so much. I'm Ray Liotta, and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come cry accolade. I mean, that's pretty impressive. Rachel, your qualifications are so. So on the money that you get yourself a Rayliotta. Congratulations. Thank you so much. I will do my level best not to talk meaninglessly about your local football club next time you ring in. Okay? Thank you. Thank you. Not only does it make me sound old and boring, it makes me sound repetitious and predictable as well. Apart from that, great. Well played. 1240 is the time. And rest in peace, Ray. That still gets me, actually. Little reminder, Benji is in Shoreham. Benji, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Benji. My question is, because it hasn't rained for two months and there are no ponds in our local parks, how do our squirrels get water? Because if they don't, they die. That's a very. How old are you, mate? 13. That's a very good question. I like that. I saw a squirrel. Yes. I mean, this isn't very shocking news, but I had exactly the same thought as you. I saw a squirrel yesterday and I thought, where? We're miles away from any water sources. What's the poor little fellow going to do? I mean, I imagine that there are. I mean, puddles or little deposits of water somewhere that they will be able to track down. They may not need a huge amount of water, but I'd like to know for sure. I shall try and find out for you, Benji. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much and enjoy your summer holidays. Where do squirrels get their water from? There's a pond near me as well that's drying out. I don't know why. I mean, it was already drying out before the heat wave. They're clearly redeveloping it in one of the parks. And there's a massive terrapin. Biggest one I've ever seen. Just having a bit of a sunbathe yesterday. Magical stuff. I love. What, so old now? I love wildlife. I never thought I was going to embrace middle age with such enthusiasm that I am. I restored a lawn roller the other day. Did I tell you that? Yeah. I've got pictures. Richard's in Chelmsford. Richard, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on to horses vomiting or being sick or not vomiting, as the case may be. They can't vomit. Why? They have a valve which is called a swift tire. Yeah. Which is really low down in their stomach. So they can't basically open that. It's not allowed to open to the agurgitis. What. What advantage does it bestow? Do we know, do we know why they have that or indeed why other mammals are capable of vomiting? Well, a lot of other animals would regurgitate to feed their young. Yes. Whereas horses wouldn't. They've got milk. So they create milk. Yeah. Yeah. And the. The valve is set that low down so when they're at full speed to basically try and evade something trying to eat them, it wouldn't allow them to be sick whilst they're fleeing because a lot of animals would have to stop to be sick. Yeah. I like this qualification tracks. I'm actually a farrier. I shoe horses. Oh. For some reason my colleague has written on the screen, I dot he shoes. I dot he shoes. I dot he shoes. What does that mean? Do we know what that means? I dot he shoes. Oh, there's a. The space is in the wrong place. I do the shoes. Oh, yes. I could have stared at that. I could have stared at that all day. You busy? Is there a lot. I mean, is there a lot of farriering to be done in Chelmsford, Richard? I cover most of Essex and it is flat out busy all the time. Is it really? A lot of horses in Essex all the time? Loads thousands. And do you, do you have an anvil? I have an anvil. I work at a mobile unit, so I have an anvil. Fire, gas. I turn up in yards and see what horses. Oh, so great. And you enjoy your work? I love it. I've been doing it since I was 15. I'm 45 now, so. 30 years in love. It's a lovely job, that old school. Round of applause for Richard. Lovely answer. No, thank you very much. Well, I'd love to come out with you one day. There's so many interesting people doing interesting jobs. We could probably get a show out of it. Like a different show, a podcast or something. Ian's in lowest off. The in. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right. When you look in a mirror, the image that you see is inverted. Left, right. And that's called lateral inversion. Yes. My question is, how come the image is not inverted vertically? Is it your. It's because of your eyes, is it rather than the mirror? No, I think it's. I don't know. It's not. I think it's because you can get vertical inversion in a spoon. Can't you? Can't you? I don't know. I've lived in spoon. You've looked in a spoon. You can get. I've looked in a spoon. I don't know. I mean, a mirror is a flat surface, it's a plain mirror is the technical term. Yeah. So if it's a very. If it's going left to right in one dimension, why doesn't he do it in the vertical dimension, why doesn't it go up to down? Yeah. Yeah. You're on. Okay. I mean. I mean, there'll be an answer. Won't there be physics? Will it? There is an answer. It'll be physics. It'll be optics. Yeah, but we don't know what it is. Okay. And maybe spoons will turn out not to be very relevant. I mean, who knows? Who knows? I just find out. Thank you, Ian. I like that. Why aren't mirrors inverted vertically? Zero. 345-606-0973 given that they are indeed inverted laterally, it's 1245. How can it be 1245? I've only just sat down. Honestly, it's ridiculous. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6091 it's 1247. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. Rowan is in Southend. Rowan, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James, to that wonderful mystery of what did the Romans do for us and what actually they didn't do for us. Yes, according to the time. Now, your original question, actually, this is Leonard's year's month. Seasons question that I didn't understand? Yes. Okay. So what he was explaining was that there were only ten particular named months. Yes. What he didn't get is there was an extra month that the consuls, which is the highest grade of roman public servant, could insert, called intercalendus, to sort the seasons out, because they only accounted for about 130 days, 330, something like that. Got it. And frequently they wouldn't bother inserting that extra month. They would sit down, calculate, our seasons are somewhat off. We're going to have to get them. We're going to have to get this extra month. And the reason this is particularly important is because the religious festivals went by the month and not by the season. So you could end up in a situation where you were literally celebrating Saturnalia, which is your big festival, where this, which was all topsy turvy flakes with the masters and so on and so forth, nowhere near the timeframe where it's supposed to happen. So that could take place in September, when actually the month was December, so autumn. Now, this is the really fun part, because it was the consoles themselves that decided, sorry, the censors themselves decided whether or not to put that month in or not. If they didn't, and they definitely didn't, the seasons would be all over the place. And it was entirely down to them whether they bothered to do it or not. Okay, go on. And that's why, when Julius Caesar hooked up with Cleopatra, he said, now I'm going to get this sorted out. He went to her and said, look, you people are really, really quite good at organizing the seasons and the months. Can you give us an accurate number of days that we need to calculate on the year from? She said, no problem. And that's why he had the 360. And then along came Pope Gregory, who ended up doing the insertion of eleven days. That hucks back to Yorpala a long time ago. Who did the answer on why the lady days? Lady days and tax, and why the 5 April and not the 25 may? I think it was. Yeah. So it's all about trying to. Trying to get the time right so the seasons were relevant. So it was a much better question than I realized. Sorry. Yeah, no, that's fine. You know me, mister. Mister Humble. They call me behind my back qualifications, obsessed with everything roman since I picked up my first book on asterisk when I was eight. Is that because you thought your name was Roman when you saw it written down? No, I was given a copy of Asterix. In fact, if you want to know what my name is, I was named after the tree in my parents garden. Yes. Yes. Because my hair is the same color as, uh, the berries on the tree on the day I was born. Oh, isn't that lovely? Oh, it's absolutely lovely. What colour is that? What color is that? Um, quite gingery. Oh, lovely. Like, not so ginger anymore. Bit old. It's gone white. But this is not coming out of your ears. Uh, Rowan, I shall give you a round of applause. It's a beautiful answer. Very, very good. Beautifully done as well. Lovely. Lovely art sort of enthusiasm. Andrew's in Chigwell. Andrew, question or answer? I have a question for you, James. Yeah. Good afternoon. Um, the question is, how far does electricity travel through water? So we all know about the electric fire landing in a bath and people getting electrocuted to death. But if you're in the sea and the sea got struck by lightning, how far can you be away from that lightning before it has no effect on you? I presume. It's an odd, because, you know, if you threw a hairdryer in the sea, it's going to have a lot less impact than a bolt of lightning, I imagine, isn't it? Is so is that what travel as far? So how, say, you know, it depends how much electricity you put. Swimming pool. Yeah. You can get electrocuted to death. I wouldn't have to know. Right. You know, there's probably an equation. Why do you want to. What on earth have you got planned? Well, we just traveled back from Orlando on holiday, and there are massive storms out there. Yes. And when there's a storm, when you're at a big water park, they say all out the water. Do they? I said to my brother in law out there, how far electricity. But they're not telling you to get out the water because you're going to get electrocuted. They're telling because the lightning might hit something which would then fall into the water. Isn't that. I don't. I mean, this is a quiet. Yeah. All right, so. But it's going to depend how much electricity there is. There's not going to be, like, an answer. No one can just ring in and say, 40 meters, can they? Because, I mean, like I said, it must be volt versus volume of water. Yeah. Did you say that? Yeah. Yeah. Very clear. There must be an equation. All right. How far can electricity travel in water? That's the question. Zero. 345-606-0973 is it worth it? Orlando, how old are the kids? Do you take kids? You got children with you? Well, one's grown up now. The other one was 17, so. Yeah, but it was a great holiday. Was it? I've always quite fancied it. 1250 would be too late. 1250. Or maybe I'll go when the kids aren't coming with us. Having be more fun. 1253 is the time. David's in Monmouthshire. David. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on to the question about the mirror. Why does it invert stuff from right to left, not from top to bottom? It doesn't, does it? It's from back to front, isn't it? It just looks back to front. Whatever's in the right of what you've put in there is on the right in the mirror. Yeah, that's exactly. Stand in front of it with your right arm up. It looks as if there's somebody in the middle with your left, their left hand up. So nothing's inverted at all? No. So the answer to the question is that the question. The premise of the question is fundamentally flawed. Yes. Qualifications, no qualification. I got a physics A level, but I actually looked it up because it came up on a program three, six months ago and it intrigued me. I think looking it up at the time is permitted. This came up on this program? Yes, I think you're right. I can't believe I forgot. Did you remember immediately when the question was asked? Oh, yeah, yeah. How old are you? It wasn't answered at the time. I know that. They did it. No, it stayed on the board. Did I thought it was answered at the time. No, that I can remember. Right, you've got a round of applause. Okay, thanks very much. No, thank you very much. Well played. Of course it's not. Yeah. Cheers. If you just think you should have worked that one out. Were you telling me that at the time? Of course you were, Keith. Honestly. Mark's in Aberdeen. Question or answer? Mark. Hi. Answer to how squirrels survive in the hot weather. Yeah, they drink dew first thing in the morning. Little pools of dew that form on broad leaves that squirrels. Even your lawn, even your lawn can be a bit damp in the morning. Can't anywhere. Yeah, anywhere. What they manage to drink in the morning is enough to sustain them for the rest of the day, basically. Is that right? Qualifications. We have some woods nearby to us, and there's a guy who. They're famous for squirrels, lots of red squirrel population, and the guy there feeds them every day and he told me so. No qualifications other than just general. That is your qualification? That's the best qualification of all. Lived experience. A curious mind and a questing personality. Mark round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. 1255 is the time. Mark's in Barrow, in furnace. Mark, what have you got? A bit more about the roman months. Marvelous. Your previous speaker is not wrong at all. No, she was wrong. But the point is that you had a civic year that began in March and it ran for ten months. Yes. And of course, it was 300 days only. That doesn't. That doesn't cover the whole solar year. Correct. 10,000. The whole solar year is fixed. You can't run without it. Yeah, got it. But there were 60. 61 more days and they weren't, as far as we can see, they weren't originally assigned to any particular month, except when, as in your previous speaker was saying, there was a need, a civic or religious need, for an additional month, and that would be fitted in between what we now think of as January and February. Okay. But it wouldn't necessarily happen every year. It would be a movable feast, as it were. The. What then happened was that because of the huge cultural influence of Greece, the Romans started looking at the greek calendar, and the greek calendar always had twelve months in all the time. We know it. So that's when they began to be dissatisfied with this 61 year gap. Okay, 61 day gap. Sorry. Which, you know, which would sometimes be filled with an additional month, wouldn't necessarily be. Love it. And so they started having January and February as formal months. Well, that's fantastic. But at first, of course, the fifth and 6th months will be called quintulus and sextilis. Of course, the terms July and August came from the Roman. They named them after themselves, didn't they? They named them after themselves, but until then, they were called Quintulus, fifth month and Sextilus, six months. Got it. So your previous speaker is entirely correct. You've just got. No, I know, I know. Rowan was a planner. Blinder, and you've come along and sort of played another blinder off the back of her. Blinder. It's two blinders for the price of one mark. And you go around of applause and you actually, I know who you are. You're an Oxford classics graduate, etymologist, all round genius, frequent, frequent contributor to mystery. You also gave me the opportunity for a rather weak joke. Would you. Would you like to hear it? Because you mentioned the enormous. You mentioned the enormous cultural influence of Greece, which I thought was a fitting moment to reflect upon the passing of Olivia Newton John and. Oh, God. Greece, 1258. James is in Highbury. James, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, mate. Electricity flow? Any water? Yes. Like all these things? It depends. So, first of all, we need to consider what conductivity is. The water. You've got 40 seconds. I sense that you're settling down here, mate. You're going to have to speed up being salty. Yes. Seawater, being salty, is very conductive, but there's lots of it and it's in constant contact with the earth's surface. Now, the earth, remember, is an infinite source or sink of electrons. Yes. So the answer in that case is it gets dissipated very quickly. Right. It basically leaks out into the soil and the earth's crust. Now, if you had water in a bath and you contained that water and you made it conductive by adding salt or some sort of other electrolyte. Yes. You could. You could pass electric current through it, in theory, an infinite length. Holy moly. If you could contain it. So imagine a trough, like a gutter or a drain pipe or something like that. Yes. And if the water or the solution was sufficiently conductive. So let's put battery acid in instead of water. Yeah. Then if the voltage was sufficient and you had enough energy source, a wire, it would be like cabling. Exactly. Not quite as good as cabling, because obviously copper and aluminum that we use for cabling has free electrons in the atomic structure. I love it. You'd like the other fellow saying, obviously, when he was talking about. Yeah, obviously. That has. Why, you're an educated man. Well, I am now, but only thanks to you. Qualifications, James. I'm a chartered electrical engineer. Fantastic. Round of applause for James. Thanks. Always a pleasure to pitch your James. No, it really is, mate. Seriously. So much brains, so much knowledge on the table today and who am I going to give it to? Who's going to win the. I had an idea. I had an idea in my head. Yeah. Flying ant, man. Flying ant. Was it Max? Max. Unless he's already got one. Check with him, in which case I'll have another view. But the mystery out ball game goes to Max this time. Sorry I'm late again. Here's Sheila. No, you know, I made a worried face. It wasn't about the time, it was about the last caller. And water and electricity. I just. All my years of BBC training kicked in and I feel the need to say, please don't throw your hairdryer into the bath. Yeah, absolutely right. Absolutely right. Oh, God. I mean, literally, my toes were curling with stress for the idea that somebody might misconstrue that there. Sorry, that was a bit of a head girl moment. There you go. I was indeed head girl. Won't surprise any of.