Why do we close our eyes when we sneeze?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. It's five minutes after twelve, and many, many, many mysteries surrounding us today, not least regarding this debacle of the a level results. But we step onto the sunnier side of the education street now and seek the sort of illumination and indeed education that isn't ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you have a question which is in need of an answer, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. We called time upon the domination of the younger generation last week. It doesn't mean that you won't get on, but it does mean that we'll only take one or two calls from children who are currently on their holidays, because we go all the way back to March and there's an awful lot of aggrieved adults out there who have not been able to get their questions on the board. So ring in with your question zero 345-606-0973 and if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, zero 345-606-0973 for people who are new to the program, this is sort of fun. It's not news based, it's not in any way political. It is very simply the radio equivalent of those newspaper columns, the Q and A's notes and queries, where you write in with a question that you've been puzzling over or that's popped up in conversation, or possibly which your children have asked you, and you know there must be an answer and you don't know what it is. So you're not allowed to Google or search stuff up on the Internet, or indeed look it up in books. That's the whole point. It has to be something that you know, something that you have absorbed in the course of your life or your education, or simply watching telly. Don't think you need to have a PhD or a, a degree to answer the question. It could easily be something that you saw on a David Attenborough documentary or the Muppet show. When I ask you what your qualifications are, all I'm asking you is where did you find that little bit of knowledge out? And it started off as a sort of recognition of the fact that for the generation that are today licking their a level wounds, you didn't really need to know stuff in the way that my generation did 30 years older. You needed to know stuff when you went into an exam hall because you had no other way of finding it out quickly except drawing on your own memory, whereas these days, obviously, the model is different, but it's a sort of, what would you call it? A nostalgic celebration of learning by rote, or at least knowledge based education. So if you hear someone ask a question. Zero. 345-606-0973 Scott is in Tilbury. Scott, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Is there any truth in the way two place names came about to be named during the Black Death, which is Tilbury and Gravesend? So if someone was to die during the Black Death, apparently they would take to be taken to Tilbury, and that's till bury, and then they. Till they're buried? Till they get buried and then they get carted across to Gravesend. Gravesend. Correct. Is there any truth in that? I hope so. How long have you lived in Tilbury? Well, I live in canvy now, which is just the next seaside town along, so I've been. I lived in that area for 20 years. You could have found out before now, Scott. Oh, I've asked lots of people and I tell everyone that that's the truth. But is it a beautiful story, isn't it? I really want it to be true. Someone will know. I imagine I might not be able to prove that it isn't true, but someone will know if it is true. And unfortunately, if it isn't true, it's going to rob you of a little bit of local mythology. I'm going to have to start telling people that I lied all this time, or you're going to have to come up with a new routine when you're about to start amazing people with your erudition and knowledge. I should find out for you. Scott, is it true that Tilbury and Gravesend got their names as a result of their roles in the disposal of bodies that had died from the bubonic plague? Zero. 345-606-0973 Michael's in Honiton in Devon. Michael, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. A friend of mine was sitting in the garden yesterday afternoon and I just happened to mention it must be well over 30 degrees today. Yeah. So he got on his phone and he said, no, it's 29 degrees. That's from the Met office. I didn't believe him. So I got a glass thermometer out, put it on the table and it measured 35 degrees. I then put it in the shade. It still measured 35 degrees. So he said, you can't measure temperature accurately with a glass thermometer. And I said, well, hold on, you know, you can buy these in wooden frames and plastic frames and you. Hang on. Were you using a medical thermometer? I was using a medical thermometer, yes. But very, very expensive one. I don't know how the cost of it matters. You can't. I think your mate. I mean, I sense that there was a bit of. A bit of a debate about this, Michael. There certainly was. Yes. He said they actually measure it with two metal rods. So, the kind of thermometer that you normally put under your tongue. Yes, it is. But it's different from the kind of thermometer you buy. Hang on, just let me get the details correct before we press on with the conclusion. So, the kind of thermometer that you normally put under your tongue, you waved it around under your arm, you waved it around in the garden? No, I didn't wave it around the garden. Strategically. You placed it strategically in the garden and expected it to measure the temperature of the air in the same way that it measures the temperature of your body? Well, yes, mate, you could be right. I'm just trying to get. I'm not picking a side. I'm trying to get the full details in place on what this conversation was actually about. My instincts are that your mate was right and you were wrong. But, you know, I'm always on the side of the underdog, Michael. I just want to make sure. I want to make sure I've got all the details correct. So that was it. You know, he said that the Met office is putting Honiton Devon down at 29 degrees at the moment. And your bathroom thermometer said 35. My medical thermometer said 35? Yeah. Okay, but, I mean, I even put it in the shade. No, I know, but that should answer your question. If you put it in the shade and it didn't change, that means it's not taking a reliable measurement. Yeah, okay, James, I know it won't be dead accurate. Let's not fall out. There's a big gap between 29 and 35. There is. And you. So, your question is my medical thermometer more reliable than the Met offices? Mmm. Yes, I suppose so. I don't think it's more reliable than the Met office. More accurate. I just. Yeah, well, I just believe that it was higher than 29 that the Met office were putting out yesterday. Okay. Yeah, I mean, it could be, but, I mean, that was for the town. It could be that you were in direct sunlight in your garden or something like that. I don't know. Yes, yes, but I did. Crikey, how heated did the argument get? Michael? Oh, no, not heated at all. I mean, he just said that they measure it with two metal rods, which I don't disbelieve. But you want to know whether or not I wouldn't have thought that your medical thermometer was of any use at all in this situation. But that's not what you want to hear. Well, it seemed to me to be reading. I mean, I've also got a hot tub in the garden, and the water went up to 36. Gosh, what was that? What, the hot tub told you? Or did you put your medical thermometer in it? I just presume. But, you know, the thermometer you've got to stick in the turkey is not the same as the thermometer that you've got to stick under your tongue or under your armpit. And therefore the thermometers that you use to take the. We'll find out, Michael. Thank you. It's hot out there. Paul's in Billingshurst. Paul, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Go on. Yeah, in your own time. Sorry. That's all right. So my question is, I hate reading hardback books. Can't stand it. And people buy hate. Hate is quite a strong word. Sometimes I do give it a go. I've got books from Christmas on my bookshelf that don't get read because don't like reading hardbacks. So my question is, why don't publishers release a book in hardback and paperback at the same time? I think I know the answer. I'm sure you will be published author. But what do you think? What do you think the answer is? I presume it is. Yeah. I mean, have you any idea how hard it is to write a book? Paul, you've done it, mate. Mate, it is. I don't know. I mean, I hear people, like coal miners, claiming that they've put in a shift and, you know, like teachers and police officers, writing a book about yourself, that's proper work. That is proper graft, that is, Paul. And, you know, anyone who rises to that epic challenge deserves to be amply rewarded. And a hardback book costs more than a paperback book. And it just provides two tiers. You get the earlier, you get first dibs on it if you pay a bit more, and that will be the hardback. See, I'll be willing to pay the same price. I'm willing to pay more for the paper. It's just a frustration. On October 22, when my new one comes out, I will personally arrange for you to pay hardback price for a paperback copy. Or I could just slice off the hardback covers for you. I'd gladly pay. I enjoyed the first one so much. That's very kind of you. I think that's the answer. But I'll leave it on in case a sort of publishing type is listening and there might be historical origin story for this. You know the reason why it was published in hardback first, mate. Maybe more than just commercial consideration, but off the top of my head, I can't. I can't think what it would be. Another jump up the bestsellers chart? Something like that again. Money? Reason. Well, yeah, yeah. You come round twice, you get two bites of the cherry. There's two separate charts. I'll find out for you, mate. I like that. 1215, very nearly. You're listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC. I really hope we get an answer to the question about Tilbury and Gray's end. I've never heard that before. It's almost too good to be true. But, you know, what was Tilbury called before? It was called Tilbury if it's got its name as the result of being a staging post for corpses that had died from bubonic plague before being transported from Tilbury to Gravesend, where the bodies would have been buried. Can you take the temperature with a glass thermometer? A medical thermometer? Can you take the temperature outside with a. The more I laugh at a question, the more likely it is that I turn out to be. Be the mug. So we'll find out about that. Why do we have hardback books and paper backed books? Is there any reason other than profit? It's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 after twelve. Mystery hour is underway. Remember, if you hear somebody else asking a question to which you know the answer, then ring in and be showered with praise and glory. Marianne is in Bedford. Marianne, question or answer? Carry on. Why is a red onion called red when it's obviously purple? Oh, I mean, it's to distinguish it from white onions. Really? I don't. I mean, purple onion just sounds wrong, doesn't it? Well, and it's not. It's not obviously purple, madam, actually. Well, yeah, but, you know, it is arguably red. It's more purple than red. I'd say it was more of a sort of. What's it kind of? I think the purple in the roman toga. Purple was a denoted class, but it actually looked red. I've never looked at a red onion and thought it was purple. No, I'm looking at a red onion and it's purple. Well, close your eyes and then open them again and see it as. Why would they call it. I mean, what problem have you got with it being called a red onion? Because it doesn't look red. You get yellow onions, get white onions. You do. And a purple onion. It's quite red on the inside, isn't it? It's nice. Yes, it is. It's red. It's not a great phone line. Would you like me to tell you a celebrity story about red onions? Do you ever find them a bit too pungent? If you're putting them in, particularly in a greek salad, you get. The aftertaste is a little bit too much. Or are you, like me, quite fond of that aftertaste? I'm quite fond of that. But people around you may not be, Marianne, no offense. It may be so. The great Ainsley Harriot explained to me that once you've chopped your onions, you should soak them in cold water for half an hour, then dry them off and pop them in your salad. And you won't have. You don't need to do this if you're cooking with them, but if you're having them raw in a salad, then you get rid of the more pungent top notes that might hang around long after you've completed your salad. Okay. Worth a try. You sound impressed. Neither by the story nor by the name drop. Marriott? No, because I put mine into milk. Oh, blimey. Crikey. I've been led down the wrong path by Ainsley Harriot. We shall find out. For Burgundy was the color I was desperately racking my brains to think of when I started talking gibberish about roman togas. Burgundy. It's Burgundy. Yeah, Richard, it's not red. Well, Burgundy is red. Not pub. All right? We sure the phone line's not great, but the question is zero. 345-606-0973 Alan is in Waltham Cross. Allen, what have you got? Yes, an answer to the question about Gravesend and Tilbury. Marvelous. Yes. Lots of place names have names have words that don't mean anything about. From their existing spelling. Yes. They go back to the Doomsday Book of 1066. And beyond that. Yes, and Gravesend is the name of the town. The council name of Gravesham was selected in 1974 for the new area. And they went back to the doomsday book to find what Gravesend was called then. And it was grieve sham or Greaves ham, the home of the reeve and the Reeve is a ruler, like sheriff. Yes. There's a Reeve's tale. There's a Reeve's tale in Chaucer, isn't it? Which would, I think, would that predate the plague? It's probably the same sort of thing, yeah. So Gravesend has nothing to do with the plague because it's a derivation from a name that's been around since the 11th century, at least. Yeah, that's right, yes. Oh, you're a spoiled sport, aren't you, Alan? A. I loved that story. I thought it had a lovely little kind of. Yeah. Similarly with Tilbury. Yes, the burying part is nothing to do with lots of place names. End b u r y. Because Bury is a wood and often there is a name of a village and then a location further away is the same name, but with bury on the end. Oh, wow. Paul's gonna have to up his banter, isn't he? He's gonna have to find himself some new animals. He should tell the story about the Earl of Dartmouth inventing darts. In my experience, that's always worth a few pints in the dog and duck. What are your qualifications, Alan? Born and bred in Grovesend 20 years ago. And a bit of interest in local history. Oh, yes, very much. There you go. Round of applause. God, I know. I agree with you. Do you know what I spotted? Hey, you'll like this, Alan. When Leicester Square station was built, right, the, you know, Wisdom, the cricket magazine. Yes. Wisden agreed to take offices in Leicester Square station above, at Leicester Square station, before it was built. So their company logo and insignia got incorporated above one of the doorways and a portico above one of the doorways. And. And I saw it the other day. I'd never spotted it before. It's a wok shop now. It sells chinese food, but it's still there. It's lovely to see that kind of history in front of you. And it's got the cricket and the stumps and the wisdom. And that's because it was the entrance to their offices back in the day when the station was first built. Yes. If you want to see history, look up. Round of applause for Alan. He's absolutely right. Thank you. And I'll tell you, because I didn't grow up in London, I moved for university, and the first place I realized that was Gloucester Road tube station. Palamine had a flat dead opposite. And looking out of his window above Burger King, you saw it was like victorian. Still. I mean, at ground level, it's all fiberglass and it looks like every other high street, but just above and the tube stations more than anywhere else, if you're in London, really reward looking up because you see not only the ancient line, ancient, the old lines that used to be there. Special price for anyone who can tell me which London tube station has a river going over it in a tunnel 24 minutes after twelve. Don't ring in with that. Nate's in patern. Nate, question or answer? I have a question, please, sir. Carry on. So me and my son are very confused by when you cry, why does your nose run? Because we understand the functions of crying. Demonstrates that you're unhappy socially and it cleans your eyes in case there's a predator. So there's a number of different reasons to cry. Yes, but why does your nose run when you cry? Is it not because the tear ducts, although mostly servicing the eyes, but I think the short answer might be gravity, mightn't. It actually runs from inside your nose. Yeah, but it's coming down the back, isn't it? So you know your tear ducts pushing tears into your eyes, but gravity's causing some of them to. Keith's looking at me very askance. But I. So you're saying it's a design flaw? Not a design flaw because, you know, there's no particular evolutionary disadvantage from having a runny nose when you're crying. But I'm saying it's more of a. More of a side effect of an evolutionary advantage than a design flaw. I think that there's a small side effect. You know, if you're crying because you want someone to cuddle you and you got snot all over your face, I don't think that's. That's a bit of a side effect. And what sort of a heartless father are you, Nate? You're telling me you wouldn't give your boy, your poor boy, a comforting cuddle because you were worried about getting a little bit of snot on your shoulder. Well, hey, I've had plenty of snot over my shoulders in my time. You're just tuning in. I think I'm snotching. I think I'm boss. Well, no change there. I think I'm right, don't you? You do generally think you're right? Yeah, I do. I did. I should write a book, shouldn't I? But you should. The. I'll leave it on there. So you're wondering whether there is an evolutionary advantage. Yeah, I just. I can't see one. Nor can I. Which makes me conclude that it is. It's. It's a. It's a it's a side of. I mean, gravity is the short answer, isn't it? Where else would they go if they wouldn't go down? It just comes out of your eye. But they come in the back of your throat as well. You get it in the back of your throat as well. Well, I'm calling it a floor. If that's the case, you can, but we'll try and get you an answer. I'm demanding a redesign of humanity. Yeah, just the face and nose. I'll tell you who could sort that out by Tito. We'll get Gavin Williamson on the case. Yeah. He's qualified, isn't he? Absolutely, supremely qualified. Nate. I don't know why, but you've tickled me enormously. Thank you. 27 minutes after twelve is the time. Why does your nose run when you cry? Dave's in Lowestoft. Dave, question or answer? It's an answer for you, James. Carry on, Dave. Red onions. Oh, yes. It's quite obvious, really. It goes back to many hundreds of years when there weren't so many terminologies with different colors. Yes, as in red hair, robin red. The whole lot was classed as red. So any. Yeah, anything remotely red was red. Absolutely. Because they didn't have a word for purple or mauve or anything like that. So this is that simple. So it's linguistic evolution, isn't it, really? It is very linguistic. What are your qualifications? I'm just 61, I know about these things. I don't know, you must have picked it up. I read that a long, long time ago. There's so many words for red. Scale of one to ten, what do you think of my Ainsley Harriot anecdote? Very good. Over that ten, really? Yeah, it's all right. Very generous. He's just worried he wasn't going to get his sunshine in it. Exactly that. Speaking of sunshine, the glass thermometer question needs an answer. Give Dave a round of applause. Despite his appalling critical faculties when it comes to celebrity anecdotes, Richard's in Oxford. Richard, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Richard. Is an ambulance that's already en route to hospital in any circumstance, allowed to stop and render assistance to another one? Like, if you're just being, like, transported to hospital and they come across like a horrible car accident, are they allowed to stop and render assistance in any situation? So if you're in the back of an ambulance because you've relatively mild. Relatively being the key word, condition. Yeah. And the ambulance, by complete coincidence, passes a multiple pile up on the motorway and they've got all the kit and caboodle in the back. Would the ambulance be allowed to stop and help while the person in the back of the ambulance is still there? Or are you asking about an empty ambulance on its way to a 999 call stumbling across? No, no. If they've got somebody in there already who's a relatively minor case at no sort of risk, and they sort of have to do like a triage situation, or do they just have to go carry on and go straight through? Because I've already got somebody in there. I like that question a lot, actually. I don't know why. It's always got a sense of riddle to it, hasn't it? Because, you know, you presume that they would stop. No, Keith says not. I would presume you've got someone in the back with bunions and they pull alongside where a defibrillator in the back of the ambulance could save someone's life. You just presume that they would. But then perhaps you're not allowed to exercise that I know it is. Perhaps you're not allowed to exercise that sort of discretion as a paramedic, because where would it end? We shall find out. Richard, I like that question a lot. I really do. What an excellent mystery. Out. You know, I said some terrible things about the grown ups over the last few months and the much higher quality of the children's questions, but I think the grown ups are clawing it back today. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Bill Overton is here now with the headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. A quick nod to Richard Slater. So we've tweeted that lovely clip of Aaron, a caller earlier who impressed almost all of us with his clarity and his passion when talking about the a level results and his own suffering of dropping six grades on his predictions. And so they've tweeted. LBC account has tweeted this furious student whose a level results dropped six grades, impressed listeners so much they suggested he would do a better job than Gavin Williamson as education secretary. And Richard replied, to be fair, so would a Greg's pasty. Well, it tickled me. Holly is in Guildford. Holly, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. And I would like to know, do we travel among the dead? So, you know, if you go on holiday and then if someone passes away. Yes. And then you travel home, are they underneath us in the plane with the baggage? And should we know about it as well? Well, you're only allowed one question. Okay. Do we travel among the dead? Yes, that is my question. How else would you get a body home? Well, maybe like a. Privately on a jet or something? Or is there like a separate airplane? A lot to repatriate dead relatives. But that's on scheduled airlines. I mean, the idea of chartering your own jet. You'd never get anybody home from abroad, would you? No. Unless you were super rich. Why are you troubled by this? Because I'm intrigued. Now, I'm not going to put it on the board. I've already answered the question because I know from unpleasant personal experience a friend of mine whose father passed away in Dubai, they had a right album. It was horrible. But they came back on the same plane. So there's your answer. But why would you want to be told? I wouldn't want to be told. I just. I guess I have a slight, you know, fascination with death and dying. Yes, and I just. So you'd enjoy the flight more if you knew there was a course downstairs? Is that what you're telling me? Okay. Oh, that. That's an interesting one. That will definitely get me thinking. It depends. I mean, if it was an older person, I might feel more comfortable. If I knew there was sort of, well, you know, a younger person, I might feel a little bit like on edge. No. Well, I think it's probably best that we don't know. And the answer to your question is yes. Based on personal experience, but also on a modicum of just reasoning in that it's impossible to think of how else you would do it. And we know that people are brought back if they pass away on holiday, they're brought back home to be buried or, you know, to have their funeral. So I'm going to give myself a round of applause. Holly, I think, and I wish you well on your next flight. Richard is in Godstone. Richard, question or answer? Toby. I would just try. Richard in a moment. I think Toby's in Woodford Green. Toby, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah, so I'm a paramedic and we're going the ambulance. Question. Yeah, we have to stop. If we do come across, if we're traveling someone with somebody to hospital and we come across something quite serious, then we do have to stop. Assess the situation. It's called a running call. Okay. Assess the situation. Decide if there's another ambulance that's needed, maybe stay with them until that ambulance is there, but not, presumably, not if you've got a massive emergency in the back of the van. It all depends on the situation really in. But the. They leave it up to you, up to your judgment. So if you've got someone in the back who needs to be. I don't want to be irresponsible, but. You mean somebody in the ambulance for whom speed is of the very essence, you know, lost seconds could be the difference between survival and non survival. You wouldn't stop then. Yeah, it would be a difficult situation. Yeah. You know, if it's. You would have to possibly just call up our control to let them know that something terrible has happened on the road because it might not have been running yet. Okay. But it all depends on the situation. I've stopped a couple of times. Yes. With a patient on back for calls and. Yeah, I had to assess the situation and. Yeah. Did you tell the patient what you're doing? Because I could imagine them getting a bit irritated. The patient on the back? Yeah, yeah. So I've said, we're just pulling over here, mate, put your feet up. I'm just going to check on something. I see them and sort of say, you know, I'll just have to assess the situation. We'll be back in a second. Usually, as I say, we have got two people on the ambulance, so the other person will sit with the patient and watch them. That's nice. You sound like you care about your job, Toby, which is always reassuring to hear clearly. And the round of applause I'm going to give you feels like scant reward for all of your efforts, but it's all I've got, so enjoy. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well done, everyone. Hayden's in Luton. Hayden, question or answer? Question, please. It is. What ecological disadvantages would we suffer on the planet if flies didn't exist? All flies or all flies, just flies in general, because I know, like, you know, like, obviously, if we didn't have bees, then the whole thing with, you know, plants and everything else being. Yeah, but you mean big flies. Biggest. I'm thinking blue bottles is what you're really after here. Little green ones, whatever, just because. Well, I mean, they eat each other. So if you got. I mean, an aphid, for example, there's big news at the moment about nicotinoids and sugar beet crops in Europe. The French are relaxing a ban on nicotinoids because the crops have been so awful recently and the aphids have taken over the sugar beet, the french sugar beet fields, but they have predators that are also flies, so I don't mean. What? Where the hell did this come from, Hayden? This is like 04:00 in the morning, because I really dislike them. As soon as one comes in my house, then I'm, like, chasing it around with one of those electric bats and I'm trying to bay and I'm trying to fry it and everything else, and I have a dog, and when I take the dog out and she does her business, within seconds. Yeah, there's a mass of them, just like the terminology. Absorbing. Yeah, but recycling. Recycling. And. Well, there's your first. There's your first answer. There'd be a lot more poo around. Yeah, wouldn't it? So you've got to make a choice, mate. You've got to make a choice. You got to. You've got to make a choice, hater. What do you want? Flies away. Well, maybe I'm actually trying to change my perception of them just being like these filthy creatures that I do know what you mean. What do they mean? What are the evolutionary advantages or the advantages, ecological advantages of flies would be a question that I'd be more confident about getting an answer to rather than what would happen. I mean, because your original question, mate, was essentially what would happen to the world if there weren't any flies. Yeah. Yeah. Because I'm like. I'm trying to change my perception. Well, they must have some purpose. We've already established one benefit that, you know, they turn waste, they turn dog waste, or actually, they turn mammalian waste into kinetic energy and chemical energy. But that's. So anyway, we shall find out. I mean, how deep in it would we be if there weren't any flies? These are the questions for the ages, Aiden. Thank you. Oh, dear. Zero. 345-606-0973 Ron Zinhal. Ron. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. The thermometer. Question about why you shouldn't. The guy who's having difficulty saying that it was reading much higher than the metal, well, he wanted to know whether or not his medical thermometer could be used to measure the temperature in his garden. Well, it could be, but he'd have to be very, very careful because they're very. I'm assuming that it's a mercury thermometer that he's talking about. He said glass thermometer, so one presumes. So, yeah, kind of pop under your tongue. They're made so that they. When they record the temperature, the mercury doesn't go back into the bulb, it actually stays at the temperature it records. So it'll go higher, but it won't go lower. There's a way they've made there's a tube with mercury and it's got a tiny little kink. It sort of responds. That's why. That's why they flick it with the wrists. The doctors and the nurses. Exactly. That's why you see them flicking. To get it back over. To get it back, back down over the kink, as it were. That's right. Yeah. But does it? Okay, so all things being equal, you've got a brand new glass thermometer. Yeah. All the mercury is in the bit of the bowl that it's meant to be. Will it be telling me room temperature at that time? Yes. Oh. So I was wrong to mock him, then, quite as enthusiastically as I did. I mean, his laboratory conditions might have been wrong, but the theory, the thesis he was examining and experimenting upon was sound. Well, as long as the temperature didn't decrease at all from the time that he took it into the room. If he took it, was that 30, and then he took it out into the garden without shaking it down, then it wouldn't go any less than 35. But if he had shaken 35, if he shook it down and it hit 35, then. Then his thermometer would be more reliable than the Met Office's calculation that the temperature in Honiton at the time was 30, 29. Not necessarily, because it just seemed unlikely to me that his medical thermometer would be more reliable than the Met office. Yeah. If you let the sun on it for just a very short space of time, the mercury would shoot up there. They're made so that they'll take the temperature fairly rapidly, but they won't go back down again. So if he's taking it outside, if he takes it outside, gets into a shaded place, shakes it down and then lets it rise, he'll get a rough approximation, fairly, fairly accurate, of what the temperature is like in that place. Well, I never. What are your qualifications? Oh, I started as a nurse 50 years ago. Blimey. Are you bored yet, Ron? We only had the mercury thermometers to use then, of course, now they're almost never used. They use digital. Digital thermometers these days. That's right. Awesome. But the one we've got, you stick in your ear, you don't go nowhere near your tongue. And they've got one downstairs, Ron, in where I am now that you just. It's like a little tv screen. You just look at it and it takes your temperature. Well, yeah, yeah, I've got. I'm wearing one on my wrist now where I can get my temperature, heart rate, blood pressure and everything. A sort of fitbit y kind of thing. They're teleporting. You'll be teleporting next. Have a round of applause. What a lovely answer. Yeah, I just thought I'd mention anything. Just thought I'd mention I'm 68 and one third years old. Well, yeah. Very glad though. This is it. We suppose we're keeping average of contributors throughout 2020. Thank you, Ron. 68 and a third, 1246. Coming up at one on LBC. Andrew Castle, did the exam system work for you? Did you get the grades you deserved? Students, teachers, parents, all are welcome. From one Andrew Castle on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I'm troubled by this. I haven't been able to establish its provenance, but it seems to me to be credible. Ofqual has warned that appealing against a grade will affect other students from the same school because of the rank order system. What I mean by credible is that it makes sense. So if one student were to successfully appeal against their position in the rank order, it would push another student down the ranking and they would then need to be allowed to appeal as well. So in the finest tradition of our vote leak government, every time you think things can't get any worse, they do potentially. Keep an eye on that angle. I will as well. Maybe we'll be discussing a climb down a U turn or even perhaps a resignation tomorrow. But that makes sense because this algorithm looks at everything and awards grades according to what could be described as averages. So if you break that chain, if you move yourself within that chain of students and that chain of grades, there's a knock on effect, presumably downwards rather than upwards. But yeah, that is a worry. Keep an eye on that. Malcolm's in Hampton Hill. Malcolm. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's actually additional information from an earlier answer regarding flying coffins. We need a pithier name for additional information from an earlier answer because if you were challenging an earlier answer we'd call it a stewards inquiry. I don't know what we could call additional information from an earlier answer but I shall put it on my to do list for the weekend. Fill your boots, malcolm. Filly boots. Right. Okay. The human sort of coffins are flown around the world with regularity. They have to follow IATA regulations whereby they have to be declared on the load sheet to the captain and they're actually designated three letter code of hum for human remains. But interestingly, if there are, say, dogs that are being carried in the same hold. There has to be a minimum distance between the human remains and the animals. Say dogs or cats. You'd hope so. Because of their acute sense of smell. They can actually smell the. And they get quite disturbed. Absolutely. And distressed. And it not as much as the passengers, though. No, this is true. You. I mean, then of course, on. Oh, I don't know if this is too morbid, but of course, if someone passes away on the flight, you have to leave them in their seat as well. I forgot that bit. Yes. And also bear in mind, James, there are also other human remains that are carried as cargo, which are ashes. You know, ashes and an urn. As well as coffins. Yeah, I mean, personally, I take the urn as hand luggage. I think some people do, actually. I mean, seriously, I wasn't trying to make you laugh. I think I'd much rather have it. Have it as I hope neither of us ever have to make this decision. Malcolm, obviously. Stop giggling. Stop giggling. We're talking about Ashley. I'm sorry. Would you book a seat? Okay, Randall, what are your qualifications? I used to be a flight dispatcher at Heathrow airport many moons ago. I'll do nicely. Round of applause for Malcolm. Lovely. Thanks, James. Very. Cheers. Bye bye. Take care. I love the cheerfulness, the ebullience on such a potentially serious subject. Nazir is in Watford. Nazir. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. This is about the tears. Yes. The eyelids, where they meet above the nose are called inner canthes. Yes. Tear is produced above the eyes, sort of under the. Under the eyelids. Yes. And when we start crying, of course, the tears flow into the inner canvas where there are little canals and they end up into the nose. Hence the nose starts watering. So it's gravity. Well, like gravity, yes. But. But when somebody cries immensely, then of course, these little ducks can't cope. Hence you get them on the cheek. So. Oh, wow. What great art. Qualifications? Retired optician. Have your qualifications ever coming this useful before? Sorry about that. That's lovely. Arsenal. Round of applause for Nazir, please. It had to be that. So, I mean, a design floor was the original question, but actually Nazir's turned it upside down. Liz is in Wimbledon. Liz, question or answer? Liz? No. Got time? A couple more. Have we more answers? Anything else on the board? Sam's in Edinburgh. Sam, question or answer? That's an answer, James. Carry on. So the question about flies and their benefits. Yes. So you did get one of the points absolutely correct, of course. The biodegradation. I wish I'd known that word for it. Yeah, well, Keith got quite upset with me for the word that I use. Biodegradation, mate. That's what it's all about. Yeah. Yeah. The waste is obviously only one half of the biodegradation. They're also in their larval stages. So maggots will get a lot of dead bodies as well. Oh, God. Yeah. So necessarily, obviously. No, but there'd be a lot of unpleasantness around if there weren't any flies. Yeah. And also from. That's from an ecological point of view, they provide a food source for a great number of animals, amphibians, other insects, birds, even some small mammals. And from a human point of view, there are some parasitic versions that will also provide us some. A bit of a defense against plant pest species like caterpillars and grasshoppers. There's a lot going on. Be nice to flies is the lesson. And he wanted to be, didn't he? The caller, I think he felt held by back by his. Not fear, but his dislike of flies. Now, hopefully, you've given grounds for. Yeah, I suppose next. Next time he's having a nice corn on the cob off the barbecue. Yeah. Flies have helped help protect those growing they're from. By eating the things that would have eaten the corn. Well, they again. Larval stages, they would be. That in itself is fairly unpleasant, but it's parasites that eat these pests from the inside out. That's what we need, more. More parasites eating pests from the inside out. That's what I call for qualifications, Sam. I did study ecology many moons ago, but it's really just a lifelong interest in anything from the natural world, really. Oh, fantastic. And what was that banging noise in the background a moment ago? Oh, I do apologize. I might walk in the dogs. No, apologize. I'm painting pictures on the radio, Sam. That's what we do. I just. I was worried that you might be swatting flies. Have a round of applause. Liz is in Wimbledon. Liz. Question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Liz. The excitement made me just drop the phone before. I think I get that a lot, Liz. I get that a lot, so don't feel bad. Not as much as Andrew Castle gets it. You should see what people drop when Andrew Castle is around the place. But with me, it's just. With me it's just phones. So where were we? Well, ten years listening. Always wanted to be on mystery hour. The honour is all mine. Oh, I don't know about that. So, the short paperbacks, hardbacks publishing. You could say that the short answer is profit. But actually it's more nuanced than that. So basically what happens is that hardbacks rarely make money. A small percentage of them do. If it's a massive bestseller, a brand new Jamie Oliver cookbook back in the day, Delia Smith cookbook, or, you know, David Attenborough book tie in with a BBC series, Harry Potter Hardback. 47,000 copies I think I did in hardback. Would that have made any money? No, sorry. That's all right. It's good job I did 200,000 plus overall formats, isn't it, Liz? Yeah. So. Well, it's great. And, you know, I've read it and you signed it for me, James. So yours is already worth twice as much as everybody else's. Well, exactly. I mean, it's worth millions, probably. Of course, I'd never part with it. I'll be buried with it. So what's the logic then, to do the hardback as a loss leader? Sort of. Yeah. So what happens, basically, is when the decision is made, obviously, I'm really simplifying this, but when a publishing company decides to publish book, all of the costings and sales projections, everything are done on the hardback and the paperback together. Right. And what basically happens is the sales of the paperback, which are always much, much greater, offset the cost of the hardback. It isn't just better quality paper, hard covers and so on. Also the promotional cost. Did. I got it the wrong way around? I got it the wrong way around. I thought the hardback made more money. No, hardbacks nearly always lose money. Paperbacks bring the money in. There's also some sort of more nuanced reasons. It's also traditional. Yes. It's also partly snobbery because most reviewers won't review paperbacks. Is that right? And there's been a. Yeah, there's been a few publishers over the years, particularly trans world, who've tried to go straight to paperback. It hasn't worked because the reviewers want the hardback. Yes. So that's why they do it. So I'm sure a publisher may call you now and say, no, it's not fine. No one can call me. It's Andrew Castle time. That's it. We're done. Round of applause for Liz. Qualifications, I think I know. Bookseller, book buyer, and a publisher and. And. And enthusiastic both ends of it. There we go. There it is, Liz. Great stuff. Thank you. I'll make sure I sign the next one for you. October 22. It's coming up to 01:00. Andrew, you've got another book coming out? Apparently, yeah. How much do you have to pay for one of these? Why haven't I had a free. Am I not important? Well, I think you're wealthy enough to buy your own books, aren't you? That were your winnings from giving money to you. That's a painful thought. Very nice to see you, James. Thank you very much indeed. Most interesting. I love. We're going to nick a bit of your Sadiq Khan chat earlier on. Working from home. W fh is it here to stay? The ups and downs of this new phenomena from 03:00 at two. Are we too quick to assume a university education is the right path for everybody? It costs money, everyone goes. Is it worth it? Which brings us to these blasted A level results today. Did a computer algorithm reduce your grade? Did you get the result that you deserved? Students, teachers, parents, tell me what's going on out there. This is LBC. It's a discussion. Get in touch on your radio on global player and play LBC, leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.