Why can't I get drunk?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Is it that time already? Not. I mean, it's probably because I got the day wrong yesterday. I'm surprised that Thursday, twelve noon on a Thursday, has crept up upon us so quickly. You're a lot of love coming in for Liz. Actually, I should pass that on. The final caller there, which was a particularly pertinent contribution to the conversation. But that line about asking people what school they went to, which, somewhat uncomfortably, was my own, is probably the key distinguisher between what we would loosely refer to as classes. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number you need, and we are diving headfirst into mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. The reason I sound a bit distracted is because the switchboard just exploded. Some weeks it does and some weeks it doesn't and it doesn't seem to have anything to do with what I say or do, which is a little bit discombobulating, to be honest with you. I would remind you that there is a thing of me jig a wonderful prize of a mystery hour board game. It's a really, really good board game, actually. I think I made a mistake of being so gobsmacked by the fact that a board game had sprung organically from this sort of slightly odd radio feature that for a while some people thought I was joking. They thought Keith was a figment of my imagination. And I'm not yet prepared to confirm or deny whether that is true or false. But the board game is 100% real. Go and have a look at it at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. And if you're not lucky enough to win one by being my favorite contributor of today, you can buy your own. Four minutes after twelve is the time. We will, I think, just crack on. Have I forgotten everything? Terms and conditions. Terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK. So that's two websites I should always mention at the outset of mystery hour. LBC dot co dot Uk, comma for the terms and conditions regarding the competition to win a copy of the board game and mysteryhour dot co dot UK to get your own copy of it as well. And you're not allowed to google anything. But I haven't mentioned that for months. It seems to have sort of become self policing, I think. Anyway, we shall see. Alice is in Northwich. Alice, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. Alice, how does a self sourcing pudding work? Oh, that's a good question. Thank you. So I think I know, but I mean. Sh. So you mean the batter. A single. A homogenous batter goes into the oven and it comes out with a sponge top and a soggy bottle and a liquid bottom? Well, yes, you put the batter in the bowl and then you have to pour a mixture of boiling water and sugar over the top of it before it goes in the oven. And then, miraculously, whilst it's cooking, the liquid goes to the bottom and the pudding rises to the top. Wow, that's. Yeah, but if you left it in for longer, it would be a cake. Well, it'd be a very soggy cake. Yeah, but I think that's the answer, because the wet. I'm very, very partial to a self sourcing pudding, although I've never called it that before. That it's the same stuff. Or is it. Or does. Ah, no, because it could be. Is it creating a sponge that rises through and leaves behind a liquidy residue? That's the clever thing. So I know it must be. It's chemistry, but I can't quite work out how it is that the pudding manages to set and rise through the liquid instead of just. But that's not. I'm not sure it is. I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm not sure that is what's happening. I think that the crust is forming on the top like a pie, and that the liquid underneath is actually still the same stuff that the crust is made of. It's just uncooked. Ah, but when you. The sauce is not just boiling water and sugar. No, the sauce also has the flavour. So if you make a chocolatey one. Yes, you get a lovely chocolatey sauce. Yes, but you've got a lovely chocolatey sponge as well. Well, you do have that. Yes, but it's the same. Now, I want to use the word sauce, but it's different meaning source. The source of the sauce is the same source as the sponge. Alice, now you're just getting ridiculous. We got Dick Emery's son rang in the other day. We need him to come back on and go, ooh, saucy. Then we'd be. Exactly. But. But it is the same sauce, isn't it? The sauce and the sponge have the same sauce. Yes, but you have to get the proportions absolutely correct or else it wouldn't work. Yes, and I would. Well, that's what recipes are for. Well, of course we've got a recipe, but that doesn't explain the chemistry of it. No it doesn't. We need a chef. You might have a chef listening. There's always chefs listening. But they'll be on service. Now it's eight minutes after twelve so I'm sure one of them will take a moment out. Right, you're on, Alice. I shall try and get you how the self sourcing puddings. Self sauce. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Chris is in Exeter. Chris, question or answer? Question. Please carry on. So have a drink. Any liquid? Yes. Does the body prioritize where that liquid is needed most? I like this question. I like if you've got a massive hangover and your cheeks are like sandpaper and you neck a jug of water, why don't your cheeks get more juicy immediately? Yeah. Because I say when you have a dry mouth that's the first sign of dehydration. That's your body saying is it? Is it when you. Yeah. Well ray mears and the other fella. But whenever I have a dry mouth and I have a drink my mouth isn't, you know, how does. Well it's all hydrated. I mean how does the water know where to. So where does the water. So you drink, you're dehydrated. Where does the water go first? Yeah. Does. How does the body prioritize it or does it prioritize? A great question. It's a really good question. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. 034560 is the number you need to provide the answer. I stopped making the promise for a one laugh out loud moment every week on this. But it's nice that Phil is still counting and he's already had his. I used to say I might start saying it again. I guarantee that by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. This is every Thursday from twelve. I like to think it applies to every hour that we spend together, but this hour in particular. And also you will have one laugh out loud moment. I'll just take this. I don't deal with text much during this part of the program, but I'll tell you what the heck is a self saucing pudding? I should have explained. So you've got a bowl and you pour and you put your batter in a bowl. Like one homogeneous bowl full of batter and then you put it in the oven and when you take it out you've got a sponge pudding top and a wet sauce bottom. So a self sourcing pudding. So it's not like you put your sauce in and you put your pastry on top. Or your sponge on top. It's just one thing. It's one. What's the word I'm looking for? It's one thing. It's not one ingredient. It's one thing. It's one substance that you make. You mix together flour, eggs, cocoa, flour? Well, sugar, lots of sugar. You stick it in the oven, thinking that you make. It will come out like a cake or a mousse. But actually it's cake on top, liquid underneath. Business at the front, party at the back. It's the mullet of puddings, isn't it, really? That's in Chesterfield. Matt. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I want to know why we find beauty in inanimate objects. What's the point? What's the evolutionary benefit to finding a waterfall? Beautiful, for example. What a lovely sports car. What a beautiful question. Thank you. Just trying to think what it might be. I mean, we find people attractive, don't we? I know they're not inanimate, but could it be a similar sort of abuse? We can't. You can't procreate with a stately home or a sunset. What's the point? Don't tell Jacob Rees Mogg that. He. The stately home bit. He's still trying to procreate with a penny farthing every Friday night. What do you remember? Lockdown? Yeah. The thing that struck me about lockdown, I didn't notice it until about halfway through, is that I really missed big skies. I really missed that sense of smallness in the universe. You know, that. And so it's going to be something to do with mental health, isn't it? It's going to have something to do with releasing some hormone or just relaxing. Something beautiful. Looking at something beautiful. Beautiful giving us. I lived in the Middle East, James, for a while. And when I flew back to Manchester, the green from the airplane window was pleasing to my eyes. Yeah, you're on. I don't. Why do we derive pleasure from the view? Really? Isn't it? Regardless of the view. And. And. And a waterfall. Well, that's still a view. That's still a view. The view. You're looking at a view. Something you see gives you emotional pleasure. Indeed. Well, I like that. I don't mean who's going to be able to answer that. God only knows. But we will endeavor to find out both what the answer is and who's going to answer it. Zero. 345-606-0973 thank you, Matt. 1212 is the time John's in Islington. John. Question or answer? There's a question for you, James. Carry on, John. Large vehicles, lorries. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. No, hang on, Keith, this is your. Jake's not done this before, mate. We've got an inexperienced producer on this program, deeply experienced elsewhere, who's going to be looking out for motoring questions. It can't be him. That's not the point, is it? We don't. John, we don't really do motoring questions, mate. Yeah, well, you'll do this one because you love me. Is it like, hardcore? Absolutely. Inescapable motor in question. We can't pretend it's philosophy or something else. Yeah. It's more specifically about their wills. It's a question about bloody wheels. It's wills. All right. Well, you're here now, aren't you? It'd be rude to bin you off seven times. Big vehicles, hubcaps. The front wheels stick out and the back go in. Right? Why? You google any picture of a London bus or a lorry and you'll see the front wheels. Hubcaps stick out. Yeah, going. Yeah, that's not as bad as I thought it was going to be, actually, John. Told you. You did, you did. So, the hub. Is it the hubcap or just the wheel nuts? The whole cap sticks out. It's the whole cap, yeah. So if you were. If you were looking at it, like, straight ahead, it's got a. You've got the tire and then you've got a bit sticking out below and above the bottom and the top, the top and the bottom of the tire. And then at the back of the vehicle, you wouldn't see anything except the tyre. It goes in. Yeah, exactly. All right. I don't know. I'll find out for you. How am I going to jot this one down in my notes, John? Wheel hubs? Wheel hubs. Wheel hubs is fine. Hubs. Thank you, John. Don't take that as any form of softening on my rule that we never have motor in quote. And, yeah, Keith points out we have actually done a. What was the motoring topic we did the other day? We did. You, Les. Yeah, but why people love their cars isn't a motoring topic, Keith, it's philosophy and psychology, isn't it? It's a sort of human nature. It's a question about why we do the things we do. It's not a question about parking tickets or motorway lanes. It's 1215. 1217 is the time. I don't normally interrupt mystery air for politics. But someone called Andrew Bowie, who has got a tick, so he must be an actual mp up in Aberdeenshire. And King Kadeen has tweeted this morning, will never impose unnecessary and heavy handed measures on the british people. And then he's got a lovely red cross, like a big x, and it says, no taxes on eating meat. And then another x, no new taxes to discourage flying, no dictates about sorting your rubbish into seven different bins or car sharing, no orders to get expensive insulation upgrade. There are days and there are days, aren't there, where you sort of think, I know how mad everything is. I know Brexit broke the relationship between observable reality and political rhetoric. I know that democracy can never recover until people telling lies stop being rewarded with the votes of the people being lied to. And I know that none of that can happen, while most of the media consists of sycophants and clients. But the day on which an actual prime minister would come out and announce a ban on something that didn't exist is not a day I ever thought would dawn. I already worry that with six weeks until publication, my new book, how they broke Britain, is going to be out of date, because the madness, the lunacy, the absurdity and the corruption that it describes is in danger of being overtaken by events. We're all right so far, but I wish I'd had time to include, even in the last line of the book. Would have been a perfect last line, because Liz Truss is the last chapter. It ends with her being slung out and Rishi Sunak coming in. And I could have said within a year or within 18 months, Rishi Sunak would be promising to ban things that didn't exist so early. Hopes that he might mark some sort of change with the recent past were dashed. They were dashed the minute he reappointed Suella Bravaman, of course. But the level of madness, I'm afraid, is the only word I can think of that it takes not only to announce a ban of something that doesn't exist, but then to get these weird little MP's and client journalists queuing up to cheer it. He's banned meat taxes. Oh, good old Rishi, banning meat taxes. Where are the meat? There aren't any. Some days. Some days, as I say, you just. You just do not know, do you? 19 minutes after twelve is a time I think we'll put Andrew Bowie in idiots corner. Although he hasn't contacted the show directly, his tweet has flashed in front of me. There's a rather brilliant reply to it actually by a. A Twitter account called supertansky, who has. It's Tanya, who's rung into the program a couple of times. I enjoy her work on Twitter. She says, andrew, help. I'm stuck in a car share on the way to the airport with seven bins full of meat. This is serious. Please reply. It's very hot in here. Due to all the black market insulation. This is an emergency. That's very funny. 20 minutes after twelve, rich is on the Algarve. Richard, question or answer? It's a question. Yes. I would like to know how words that are peculiar to foreign languages are signed in british sign language. Why would you like to know that, if you don't mind me asking? No, that's a very good question. It's because my wife says it's a stupid question, so you have to ring that bloke up on the radio and he'll find the answer. Yeah, but you framed the question before your wife was so unconscionably rude to you, Richard. So why? What. Where did your interest come from? Yeah, it was just one of those things. We were talking about sign language. My wife has wanted to learn sign language. And I said, well, so we have words in Portuguese that don't translate directly. I said, well, how would you say that in England? Like what? Well, in Portuguese, the best word I can think of is saudage, which is. It's often translated as homesick. But it's not homesick because, for example, you would say that you have Saldaj for your mum's cooking or Saldaj for the smell of the grass when your dad's cutting it. It's not homesick. So it's a relationship between missing something and home, but not. Not missing home itself. Yeah. You can even say you have Saldaj for a meal that you haven't eaten for a long time. It's not necessarily home. It's a complicated nostalgia. It's a. Yeah, so great work. So the Greeks have a word philoxenia, which we would translate as hospitality, but it means much more than hospitality. It's almost like a sense of duty, a sense of responsibility to a guest to look after them. I imagine the answer will be, you just go for the nearest word. But I would ask, for example, I know it's not schadenfreude. How would you translate that into English? To BSL? Yeah, that's a tricky one. It is a tricky. I mean, because you couldn't say taking pleasure in other people's misfortune because you'd be here all week. Exactly. Peculiar foreign words. Peculiar to a foreign language that don't have a direct british translation. How would they work in sign language? Yes, I like that. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I think your wife is wrong as well, Richard. For the record, she's often wrong, but it's rare I can tell her. Yeah, exactly. Be careful. 22 minutes after twelve. Of course, this is mystery, so there is always a danger of a violent reverse after I say something's very silly and it turns out it's not. Or I say, that's a very good question, and events transpire to deliver the conclusion that it doesn't. Colin gets this. A few people have sent in various iterations of this joke, but I'm going to choose Colin's, partly because I forgot to read them out earlier. Colin writes that in the 2024 conservative manifesto, there is going to be a ban on dragons and magic. I think that we're possibly giving them ideas there, Colin. And of course, a ban on dragons might deplete the cabinet somewhat, so they'd have to be careful about that. It is 23 minutes after twelve. Neil is on in South Hams in Devon. Neil, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. 42. That's not the question, though, is it? Clever clause. No, it's not. No, the answer is about the self sourcing pudding. Now, hang on, I may have made a mistake here because some people are telling me there's a self sourcing pudding where you pour a sugar and water syrup over the batter and cook it, whereas I was describing something different from that. What are you describing? The one I described or the one that my texts are telling? Okay, well, you go first. So what I think you're talking about is hot chocolate fondant, which is the chocolate sponge with the chocolate sauce in the middle. That's what I was talking about, but I'm not sure that's what Alice was talking about. But go on, I can explain. I can explain the other one for you. Perfect. Go on, then. So the hot chocolate fondant the vast majority of people, certainly in the UK, will have seen is. You were right, an uncooked sponge. Yeah. The original came from a chef called Michel Bras, who is a three Michelin star chef in France, and his recipe was called biscuit coulomb. So basically the outside was a denser sponge. It had things like rice flour in it, things like that, and then it had a ganache in the middle, so you would make the ganache, so the chocolate ganache, like you would normally make, but instead of using cream, you would use water and cream. So when you then chilled it, so you had to chill it sort of almost above freezing, so it didn't go grainy. And you then put that into the ring, which was lined with parchment paper. You put the batter in to make the, you know, for the sponge on the outside, and then you cut the ganache and you put that in the middle and you baked it. So it was two separate entities. It was two. So that's not a self sourcing pudding. That's the opposite of a self. Well, it is. No, that. No, because when you cut into it, it had a proper chocolate sauce inside it. But it's not self sauce, whereas. Well, yeah, it is. Because when you present it, it comes out and it looks like the chocolate fondant that most people in this country would see, which would be. Look like a sponge. I don't want to get stuck on this. I don't want to get stuck on this. But I think we understood a self sourcing pudding. Oh, okay. I think I understand what you mean, but that's definitely not what Alice meant. She's talking about where, like, a creme caramel. No, she's not. She's talking about, like. I mean, you're the expert, but you make a batter. Yeah. And when you take it out, you only stick a bowl of one thing in the oven, but when it comes out, there's a sauce underneath and a sponge on top. So basically what happens? The batter then separates. So it's uncooked. So it's uncooked batter at the bottom. Yeah, sort of, yeah. Because what happens is when you obviously heat the batter, the batter becomes less viscose, and you then the. The sauce elements drop to the bottom. So as you continue to cook it, the sponge, obviously then sits on top of the sauce elements. When you turn the bowl out, the sauce. So they do separate the stuff. So if you did a biological, a chemical analysis of the sponge and the sauce, they wouldn't. They wouldn't be identical. No. No. Okay. They would still contain same elements, but you would. But the heavier ones would obviously then drop to the bottom. And there wouldn't be any baking powder or flour in the sauce, would there? Or not? Nowhere near as much. Because that's cooked now. No, because. No. Yeah, because that. So the baking powder would interest. But you're talking butter, sugar, eggs, flour. Yeah. And then carbonated soda and baking powder, or a combination of both. And then your flavor, whether it's chocolate or lemon or whatever it is. Yeah. Yes. Caramel. Yes. Yeah, got it. Now, what the other one is, is where you make a batter and you put a sort of syrup on the top of it before you put it in the oven. Have you heard? It would be the same principle, actually, wouldn't it? Actually, it would just. Yeah, all that would happen would be. So if you're putting it on the top and then in the bowl, when you turn the bowl out, the sauce is then at the bottom of the bowl. So when you turn it out, it then sauces over the top, like the creme caramel talked about earlier, where you know the caramel. Because if you make a creme caramel, this would be the similar sort of thing. When you actually make the creme caramel, you pour hot caramel into the ramekin and it's hard. It's rock hard. That's right. So then when you cook it and you turn it out, it then has the caramel sauce, but you've not effectively done anything to it other than cook it in a bain marie in the oven. So, you know, it's the same principle. So all you're doing is you are cooking it in the oven. Sauce elements. Yeah. Except that the sauce hasn't gone through the custard, has it? No. In the way that it has on the self. Yeah. So in a creme caramel, the caramel is on the bottom. Yeah. And then you pour your custard mix on the top, bake it in the bain marie, the caramel only. So it then taints what becomes. What is the bottom. Yes. When the caramels. When the custard set. I don't know that this is helpful to the self. So, question bit. It's. I mean, it's great to know. I don't think it's the same at all. Well, yourself, because the caramel would have to pass all the way through the self sourcing point. I mean, the mystery is how come it's so dry at the top and wet at the bottom? And the answer is. Well, it, you know, it rose up, dried out, and the wet bit stayed at the bottom. Yeah. Yeah. And even if you pour a syrup over the top of it, after you've put it in the oven, the same thing is happening. It's. It's. It's rising up and the syrup is falling through the. Through the sponge. Through the developing sponge. Through the developing sponge. So as you. If you ever do this with your kids, like cook, I don't know, cupcakes or whatever, put a frozen, I don't know, a frozen cherry on top of the cook cupcake mix. Yeah. And then put it in the oven and you will see the frozen cherry drop, because when you heat up before the sponge mix solidifies and, you know, and aerates. Yeah. It goes liquid. It can go. Essentially what happens with your. With your syrup. Yeah. Even though it sits on the top at the start, by the time it is cooking, it will. So that it changes physically and it falls. So. Qualifications? 27 years as a Michelin star. Sorry. 27 years in Michelin starred kitchens and now an award winning web designer. That'll do nice. That's an interesting career change, but it's earned you a round of applause. Neil, well played, mate. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Talk all day about pudding. I mean, creme caramel is a really nice thing to make, but my goodness me, the egg yolks and cream and sugar, that is like. That is some serious cooking when you're making that. Some serious cholesterol, my dad used to call it, you have a fry up. Sometimes he'd call it a heart attack on a plate. And when you make creme caramel or even the late Gary Rhodes had some amazing recipes. He made a bread and butter pudding. He had a recipe for a bread and butter pudding where the custard was basically creme caramel custard. I don't know whether that's normal or not. It's the only one I've ever made. But my goodness me, it made your teeth itchy. I think we might have. Alice in Northwich is pleased. She's texted me. She's happy with the answer. I think we've opened a box of frogs there. I really. Box of frogs? I think we've opened a pandora's box of frogs. I don't know. On the self sourcing pudding, Neil definitely deserved his round of applause, but judging by my inbox, there are many other directions in which we could have gone. Questions still in need of answers include, when you're dehydrated and you glug some water, where does it go first? Which part of you gets rehydrated first? Don't say your mouth, obviously, but as in the rehydration process, once you've swallowed it, don't say your tummy. You know what I mean? All right. Okay. Why do we derive pleasure from looking at beautiful things? Oh, that reminds me. You can enjoy the show on YouTube now. I don't know whether you were aware of this, but you can see the whole show on YouTube with sort of interruptions and I think even advertisements, breaks removed so that that is something you could watch later while pondering the question of why you derive such enormous internal pleasure, such emotional joy, from just literally watching beautiful things. Try it with the sound off. Try it with the sound off, see what happens. That would be my fact, now that I'm talking about it. For anyone who is watching on YouTube, I'm now looking, for the first time this week, down the barrel of the camera. I hope that wasn't too frightening for you. Wheel hubs. John's question in Islington motoring, already getting quite a lot of criticism for it not being a very good question. But, you know, John is a stalwart of the show. Why do the wheel hubs on the front wheels of big vehicles poke out while on the back wheel, they poke it? And this was a good question from Portugal. In british sign language, how do you sign a word that is unique and peculiar to a foreign language that is a word that doesn't translate, like saldage in Portuguese or Philochinia in Greek? Kevin's in Gillingham. Kevin, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why can't I get a hangover? Are you serious? Yep. How hard have you tried? Yeah, I'm 48 years old, so, yeah, seriously tried. And so after a proper, proper skin fall, you wake up the next morning and you're not feeling anything? No, nothing at all. I've always been curious why? And my friends hate me. I bet they do. I do, too. And we've only just met. That's incredible. I mean, do you sleep the same? Yeah, sleep exactly the same. And then I get up to work. I do early morning shifts. I work in a casino, so I have to be there. Do you drink a lot of water when you're drinking alcohol? Do you have any little tactics when you're on the lam? No, I drink a lot of coffee while drinking alcohol or the rest of the time? I do a couple of espressos while I'm out. Okay. And that's it. And this has been true since you were a teenager? Yeah, that's a. I mean, I almost feel that you might be of interest to medical science, Kevin. I'm just imagining whether I was slightly frightened of what my life might have been like if I didn't suffer from hangovers. It could. I mean. Well, that's remarkable. A couple of texts already say my wife doesn't get hangovers either. It's so infuriating. Have you ever asked a doctor or, I don't know, a landlord? No. Just always enjoy taking a mic out my friends, when we go for breakfast following morning after. And they're in pieces. Yeah. They're giving the whole. Never again, never again, don't ever let me. And you're just sitting up. Never again, never again. And then I'll basically drive home and, yeah, go to work. Keith thinks you might always be drunk. You could be existing in a state of permanent drunkenness, but clearly not. No. Two more texts coming in. All right, you're on. So why does Kevin and indeed Renate and our anonymous text as wife and others, why do they never get hangovers? Good grief. I don't. Well, it's fascinating. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Tony's in Norwich. Tony, question or answer? Santa. Carry on, Tony. It's a question about the. Where water goes in your body. Yes, it's osmoregulation. Nearly. What does that mean? Basically? I think the chap. It's not a great phone line. I think it's just gone. Also, Tony sounded a bit distracted. I felt. I don't know whether that's fair or not, but we can add the word osmo. Do we still have the. What's it for, that other word? That sounds a bit. Still have that. All right, keep on your toes, mate, because I think it might be popping up today. We shall see. Tim's in Hackney. Tim, question or answer? Hi, James. So, answer to the deriving beauty from nature. You mean just getting a real joy out of just looking at beautiful things? Yeah. Oh, hang on, that reminds me, you can watch the show on YouTube now. If you just do a little search, you can find that we've been up now for a couple of weeks, so there's probably about 20 hours more. Anyway. Sorry, tay. I don't know why those two things just keep appearing together in my mind. What would you like to say? Well, it's quite simple. So I'm a photographer and it's all about composition, so it occurs in photos and in nature, really. You've got, like, rules of third Gordon ratio, particularly. But it's like there was a photo that went viral in New Year's years ago where I think it was in Manchester High street, where so much was going on and it just. Everyone was like, this is amazing photo, and it couldn't work out why. And it just uses golden ratio and you see that occurring in nature just as much as you do. Really? Yeah, yeah. You've got. So, for example, shells or symmetry as well. It's all to do with composition and how that you can capture and see it on a photo. But I mean, looking at. Why a waterfall, then, and not a. I don't know, a microphone. Microphone uses symmetry. Yeah, but I never get a kick out of looking at a microphone like I do out of looking at a waterfall. No, but you could argue that the design of that would be in the. Somebody somewhere might prefer looking at a microphone to a waterfall. So what's the evolutionary advantage? Sorry, it sounds like I'm badgering you far too aggressive line of quiet inquiry for a perfectly innocuous contribution to the. Why can't I look at a microphone? I just. I mean, where's the evolutionary advantage from. From getting a kick out of looking at beautiful things or just a nice view? A nice view. Well, there's also, I suppose, color theory comes into it, too. I mean, I'm not too well versed on that to define that, but in terms of composition, I feel like that's. I don't think it is. I think you're barking up the wrong waterfall. I don't. I don't. Because, I mean, taking a beautiful picture is very different from getting a. Because you could take a beautiful picture of a microphone, but nobody is ever going to stop in their tracks as they walk past this studio and go, oh, look at that microphone. But they are with a waterfall. Does that not depend on the type of microphone, though? No, because you've got. You've got the old sort of vintage sixties microphones. Possibly. Possibly. But you still use. It. Still uses the basics of symmetry in its design. I don't think. I mean, what about like a sky? A picture of a sky. A lovely picture of a sky. Or the view. You're standing on a beach looking at a beautiful tree, bridges, a crane. I like looking at cranes, but that's possibly closer to microphones. Crane. Crane. If you've got a crane, you've got the actual arm up or. Well, yeah, again, that's. That would still use the golden ratio. Stop saying golden ratio. Where is the evolutionary advantage in getting a kick out of looking at things? That was the real question. Yeah, but still. It still occurs in nature. For it to still. But why? Why? Why do we have. Why have we evolved to enjoy views is the question. Not necessarily why do we like views, but why have we evolved to enjoy views? Are they not the same answer, though? I don't think so, but I'm not 100% confident, so I'm going to give you half a round of applause. All right? What happened then? We just ran away with you, didn't it? Unbelievable. Tim. You got more than you deserve there. But I won't. I won't demand that you return it. Luke is in Cardiff. Luke, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Lovely. So I'll take us off where the last guy left off with osmoregulation. Osmoregulation. Careful, Keith. Here we go. So where your body senses a drop in water. So most of your water is held inside your cells. Yeah. As they use up water, they draw water from outside the cells, which is just in tissues? Yeah. And then your body senses a drop in blood pressure. So as you sense a drop in blood pressure, your body will stimulate certain hormones which will drive thirst and so on, and stimulate your kidneys to retain more water. And you want to drink them because you're getting thirsty and your body doesn't really prioritize water anywhere bar in your blood and in your tissues. So as you drink, it's absorbed through your large intestine and then later in your smaller intestine fills up your distributed around your body. So are there different forms of dehydration then? If you've had a skin full the night before or if you've just run a marathon, then you'll have dehydration in different parts of your body? Perhaps not necessarily. It's mainly in your cells, but it's mostly. Yeah, but I meant the cells in the cells in different parts of your body. Or not. Am I being a bit thick? No, it might be that it's. It might be used up in, say, your muscles sooner. So if you've just run a marathon, it might be taken out of your muscles, but gradually your body will distribute water from other places and evenly distribute it around your body. So it's more a case of where it's burnt is more important. So you might use up water in your muscles sooner, but if you've got like, an exam, you might be stressed and then you might be sweating and you lose water elsewhere. But this also feeds into the other question, which was about the gentleman who doesn't get hangovers. Yeah, well, you're not allowed to do that, sadly. Okay, I wish you were now, because I bet we don't find anyone who can and I'm going to regret it for the rest of my life. Is there anything I can do with Kevin that would allow me to adopt some of his superpower? No. What a ridiculous question. What am I going to do? Lick his face or something and come away with his magic hangover proof physiology? The only option you've got is to drink a lot more alcohol and gradually your liver will build up more enzymes to break down alcohol quicker. So he's got a really good liver, then? Yeah. So he's got really good stores, but he was born with that, I think. He didn't sound like a massive drinker. Can you be born with it? Yeah, you could be born with a bigger liver. Some people are just lucky they're born with a bigger liver or they've got bigger stores of certain enzymes that break down. Really? Oh, no, you can. I'm letting you carry on with this. It's too good to miss, so. So you and will he pass that on? Is that going to be hereditary? Potentially, sort of. Ask him about his parents, shouldn't I? Yeah, I know. I need, like a genetic biome for him to figure this out. Yeah. Generally you just need a bigger liver. My veins, you might have those enzymes which break down alcohol, and then as a result of that, he's able to get rid of it quicker. But he might have a better response to alcohol because when you're, the morning after, when you're all dehydrated, it's because alcohol suppresses anti diuretic hormone, which is released by your kidneys. And when it's suppressed, your body just loses loads of water. That's why you peel when you've been drinking. And once the alcohol is broken down, gradually your antidiuretic hormone switches back on and then you'll gradually retain fluid and rehydrate. So you're not weeing out all the alcohol and losing fluid with it, which is not ideal, but it's better than keeping the alcohol in your system. Okay. So that you've done. You've done that. And on the first question about the. So it. There's not going to be a part of the body that is more dehydrated than another part of the body. There's going to be an equal spread of. Of cell based water depletion? Pretty much, yeah. So you hold about 70% of your water in your cells. No, you've done it, mate. You know. Qualifications. I am a. Yeah, an alcoholic and a paramedic practitioner. I need to give you two rounds of applause. So we should have got that bit back from Tim. He had too much. First one for Luke. I don't think we've ever done this before. Certainly not for two answers. And another one for Luke, because that was brilliant. Thank you, mate. Mind. There you go. And a quick shout to John, who's been in touch with regards to getting an aesthetic kick out of microphones. He says, sorry, James, show me a fifties Newman U 89 and I'm in a puddle. Ten, two, one is the time Sheila Fergus back from her confinement? Shortly. Until then, a couple more questions in need of answers. And time for a couple more questions, so we'll do that first. Martin's in Coventry. Martin, question or answer? It's a question. When it rains. When it rains. Why do wood pigeons sit out on rooftops, get wet. They sit still and all of the birds disappear. Are you sure about how much research have you done into this? Quite a lot of research. Out of my kitchen window, looking at the flats opposite. They sit on the rooftops, on the aerials. How do you know they're wood pigeons? Would they be wood pigeons or pigeon pigeons? No, not scrotifurrel pigeons. They're proper wood pigeons. Yeah, those pigeons, yeah. And they stay outdoors and all the other birds take shelter. They seem to sit still on aerial chimneys, rooftops. I say the gutters over the road from me and they sit there in the rain. I think they go when it gets torrential rain, but if it's drizzle, light rain, they just sit there. When everything else just disappears. Everything else scoot off and disappear into the trees and they just sit there. Well, I never. That's it. Well, that's it. You're on the list. I hope we get an answer. Where wood pigeons, I wonder, do they get hangovers? Do they get hangovers? That's the big mystery of the day. I'm getting bombarded now. My dad and brother never get hangovers. That's got to hurt. That's got to hurt, hasn't it? I mean, not only because you might end up questioning your paternity. 1252 is the time. Paul's in Gatwick. Paul, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Let's go. Hcv one. Oh, yeah, right. The reason they appear different, on the front, you had a steer axle that just has a single wheel. All the other wheels, they're doubled up, right? So to get two wheels, the same axle, one wheel goes on the right way, first way, and then the second wheel, the one you look at is turned 180 degrees, almost face to face, goes on backwards, hence why the wheel nuts appear deeper inside. And it looks different. So it's the same wheels. They're all the same wheels all around the vehicle. The front ones are the steer ones and they're bolted on the hub. As you see, the face of the wheel is slightly offset. It allows all the gubbins underneath the brake calipers and what have you to fit inside the wheel. So, yeah, imagine taking that wheel off and then reversing it, putting it back on again. So if you've got two wheels at the back, the inner wheel is the same, is sighted the same, the same way as the front wheel. The one you. You can see goes on backwards. So they're bumped to bump. They're bump to bump, then, as it were. That's it. You've got it. Qualifications? HCV driver. Two for two. Round of applause for Paul. Lovely work, mate. That's not a bad question, then, in the end, was it, Paul, given that we don't really know. You don't like motoring? No, I don't questions. But I'll be striving and I know I don't mind motoring answers, Paul, so I don't want you to feel judged. It was the most questions I don't like. So John, frankly, was chancing his arm a bit there, but I won't lie, I'm glad he did. That was actually quite interesting. Thank you very much, Paul. Drive carefully, please. 1254 is the time. Sean's in Ulster. Ulster. Hi there, James. Hi, Sean. Right first time. Carry on. An answer, please. And can I say, an absolute honor to speak to you. Let's not get carried away. It's an absolute honour to speak to you, too. What have we got? Thank you. I said an answer, James, about the BSL question, which I thought was a cracker. Yes. It doesn't make any difference if the signer is signing a word in a foreign language or in English, because BSL is in itself its own language. It is a foreign language, effectively. And BSL doesn't work on the. On the premise of translating word for word. Yes. It's all. It's all about the meaning. So. So there will either be a way of conveying what is conveyed by words like Saudi and philoxenir in british sign language, or there won't. Yes, exactly. But as long as the signer knows what that word means, they can get the meaning across. And there was used a wonderful example before schadenfreude. Yes. And I was having to giggle to myself about that, because in BSL, what you do is point to a weight from yourself to an imaginary person and show them with a miserable face. Yeah. And then. And then you point to yourself and show yourself and you say, but point to yourself and you give yourself a smiley face. Oh, that's hilarious. Do you know what I just did? Go on. I just did it. I forgot. I was on the radio. I just. Obviously you can enjoy this program on YouTube now. Which reminds me, we haven't asked the question yet properly about why we derive such pleasure out of looking at beautiful things. I don't know why those two things keep popping up together in my mind, but I did literally just do the sign for schadenfreude. Well, not really. It's pathetic. I've been on the radio for 20 years and I just forgot that no one can see me most of the time. What are your qualifications, Sean? I got a degree in French and I happen to be married to a wonderful woman called Sally who's been a qualified sign language interpreter for many, many years. That's perfect. Qualifications, then. Absolutely. Beautiful. Round of applause. Thank you, James. Cheers. I genuinely did that. Do you know, Sheila's in the studio now. Welcome. Nice to you. Looking. Your confinement is complete. Jane Austen heroine. Do you know how to say schadenfreude in british sign language? Oh, no. I don't know. Shall I show you? Yes, please. Okay. So I'm enjoying your misfortune here. So you're. But it could be just a random person. You go like this. That's good. It's great, isn't it? Yeah. No one can see us. No, I know James is in Bayswater. James, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. I know that. I know that voice. I know those mellifluous tones. I would recognize anywhere. It is the. I'd like to think it's not that distinctive. It is pretty distinctive, James, as you well know. James Wong, botanist and all round good bloke. What have you got? I can't speak up on you. Well, the answer is about why we find certain views of the natural world instinctively attractive. And the answer is we don't find all views of the natural world instinctively attractive. We don't like a ditch filled with cow mess and flies and potential malaria. Very specific views. Exciting. And that's because we're genetically programmed to find the environments that are mostly suitable for our species. And it's the environment you see in pretty much any picturesque painting. The theory is called prospect and refuge. So there's always prospect. So there's always an open space, usually an open plain where we could find prey. Or if it isn't animal food we'd be looking after, it'd be plant food. So universally we find flowers attractive. And the reason why we get excited about flowers is because they're the location of future fruits. So if you find flowers incredibly beautiful, you're likely when you're wandering around on a plane to remember where that was and go back to that location. So that's prospect. And then there's also refuge. So there's always a little protected bit. So you're hiding away from predators. There's always in the part of the prospects, there's always fresh water because our species needs that. You mentioned waterfalls. Fresh running water is always preferable to stagnant water. Of course, it's the basis of every painting you've ever seen of a natural landscape, every garden design. It's hardwired into our DNA. Oh, man. That's one of my favorite answers of all time. That is a thing of beauty. Reminders of your qualifications, please, James. So I am an ethnobotanist, and what we do is we are anthropologists that study how people use plants. I think we've had a pretty special mystery out today, so we may as well go all in, I think. James, you get one of these. I'm Ray Liotta, and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you. I'm framing it and I'm sending it to my mom. Thank you, James. And if you enjoy James work and his intelligence, really, and his knowledge as much as I do, then you must download and listen to the full disclosure episode that we did with him, I think last year, certainly a while ago, but it's all there in the archive. And that is it for another date. James got Ray Liotta, so we'll cross him off the list of contenders for the mystery, our board game. I think it's got to go to Luke, hasn't it? Who went double? I was tempted to give it to Alice. I don't know whether I've given Alice one before. But anyway, it goes to Luke for the double answer on hangovers and hydration. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back. We didn't. Yes, we did as well. And that's. Well, he didn't really explain why looking at people would be beautiful. But anyway, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can find all of LBC's shows to catch up on. That's just basic reproduction, isn't it? As well as the world's biggest podcasts. Rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. 04:00. Tom Sawbrick, Sheila Fogarty, back with you now.