Why does life seem to go faster when you're older?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. Mystery R is underway. A weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of enlightenment that is not ordinarily available to you elsewhere. And that's not me showing off, because you're the clever ones. The way mystery R works is you ring in with a question, someone else hears, it rings in with the answer, you're not allowed to look stuff up. And we try to avoid repetition and dullness. Dullness is very much in the ear of the beholder that is me. So if I think it's boring, I will be very, very rude to you indeed. If Eleanor and Beth put you through with a very, very boring question, I will also, during the ensuing commercial break, be very, very rude to them as well. The best way to avoid being dull is to not ask questions about motoring. I find historically or sort of parking related issues, that sort of stuff. But to be honest with you, it's a rather hard rule to observe. So if you sense when you ring in that you're being politely discouraged from continuing with your call, then just hang up and move along. We only allow one. I'm saying this for the benefit of everybody. We only allow one question a week about the origin of words and phrases, okay? Otherwise it's all we'd ever do. Similarly, do not ring in with questions about motoring, unless it is, in your view, a question of such absolutely coruscating brilliance that the whole world will share your desire to find out the answer. Is there anything else? I feel like I normally do a lot of housekeeping at five minutes after twelve on a Thursday, but I've kind of run out of things. You're not allowed to google stuff or look stuff up. That's a rule, obviously, because what we try to do here, it sounds a bit pompous on paper, but it doesn't when it comes out of my mouth. We're just trying to celebrate knowledge. So you know stuff. Why do you know? It doesn't matter. I'll ask why. I'll say, how do you know that? What are your qualifications? Is what I'll say. And you might say, I saw it on telly last night. Or you might say, I have a PhD in bananalogy and that would be great. As long as I believe you, you'll get a round of applause. Very, very occasionally, something a little bit magical happens on this program, and mystery hour in particular, when somebody's contribution to the conversation is so supremely qualified that they receive a special plaudit that we know as a ray Liotta. I won't explain further. If you're there, if you've witnessed one, you'll know that it's a very, very magical moment. But it would involve, for example, a question about space being answered by an astronaut. Do you see what I mean? Not a question about pubs being answered by someone who likes beer. I can't give you an absolutely codified rationale for this. For example, we once gave a Ralio to someone who. I was answering a question about irons, which sounds a bit odd because everybody uses an iron. If my wife's listening, she just burst out laughing. But the bloke who rang in to answer a question about irons was one of the country's leading iron designers. So it's almost as if the planets have aligned. So we can't quite believe that, a, the question got on, and b, the person who's rung in was listening, and c, their qualifications to answer this question are so complete that they then get what we call a ray Liotta. There is one other item of furniture during mystery hour, which involves a single scientific word which, in the early days of this feature, I would often pass off as an answer to all the questions that I didn't really understand. If that word begins with o, if that word pops up during the course of ordinary proceedings, then again, something rather special happens. And if that hasn't got you glued to the edge of your seat, then, frankly, nothing will. Neil's in Swansea. Neil, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, Neil. Thinking about yesterday, actually, sort of. I've been growing a beard lately and how you getting on? How you getting on? How you getting on? Not very well. I'm just lazy. I'm just lazy, to be honest. I can't be bothered to shave. Made me think about when and why did men first start shaving. Kind of historically, you think a lot of pictures, men had beards and things like that, and cavemen obviously were brilliant question. Kind of, just kind of thought, you know, that's a brilliant. Henry VIII had a beard, but he clearly shaved it and trimmed it. Other people from Tudor. So what's. When we going back? William the Conqueror trimmed. I mean, they must have all. They must have always cut it a bit, because, I mean, as soon as you could, you would, wouldn't you, as soon as you had a sharp tool, otherwise you'd be dragging your beard around, be down to your backside, be a health hazard. I don't know, ancient times, but it won't have survived. The hair doesn't survive really, in the way that bones do. You're not. Discovery of razor blades would probably be the indicator, wouldn't it? They cut it with flint. Possibly, yeah. I might try that when I get home. My dad used to say, when I was sort of 1415, and I'd try and grow side burns, you know, when you used to have that first bit? Dad used to say, you don't need to borrow my shaver, son. You can just let the cat lick yours off. It stuck in my mind. I mascara'd them one time to go down the. Go down the roller disco. I got mum's mascara out. Put. Put some more. I must have looked like an absolute idiot. Happy days, Neil. Let me find out for you, my friend. Zero. 345-606-0973 when and why did men start shaving? Zero. 345-606-0973 Paul is in Shrewsbury. Paul. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Paul. Bit silly. Somebody's probably asked it before. Oh, well, mate, you're not very good at pr, are you? No. You should be bigging yourself out. You should be saying, this is an absolute humdinger. I bet you've never, never heard a question as good as this in your life. Here it is. Yeah, that side of it. Humpty Dumpty. Is that on a wall? Yeah. Well, how do you get up there with such tiny legs? That's not your question. No. Thank God for that. The picture depicts him as an egg. Where does it say that he is an egg? It doesn't. So why is he depicted as an egg? I don't know. But do you know what? He was stupid. That wasn't a real thing, Paul. It was a gun. It was a gun. Right. It was a big cannon. Humpty Dumpty, I think. Where am I getting this from? Why are you looking at me like that? Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall. Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't put Humpty together again. It's something to do with a wall mounted cannon. Well, I heard it was to do with Richard III. Yeah, that fits. And his horse. No, that's. That's, um. A horse. A horse. My kingdom for a horse, mate. That's the battle of. No, they'd fallen off his horse and his horse was called the wall because it was so big. But I thought, that's a load of rubbish. Oh, that might be true as well. I tell you what, mate, we're not really? We're not really winning this one, are we? No. So the question is, why is Humpty Dumpty depicted as an egg? Yeah, well, there's nothing in the rhyme that speaks of eggish qualities apart from breakability. Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall. Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All the kings horses and all the kings went by Humpty together. Yeah, all right. I like that. Why is Humpty duck. I'm pretty sure it's got something to do with guns, but you've made me worry now with Richard the third's horse. Yeah, I don't know. Nor do I. All right, 1211. The question is on the board. Zero. 345-606-0973. Humpty Dumpty and shaving Dan is in Bristol. Dan, question or answer? Got a question for you. Carry on. What is a daft APIs? Oh, mate, shut up. That's what my dad used to call me. Yeah, same here. And I never. And I never understood it. My grand too. Well, you know what daft means. Yes. And an apoth is. It's a ha'penny, isn't it? A half pence. Is it? I think so. What's daft about that? Well, it's not worth much. Is that it? Yeah. He's taking all the window, mister. I know, and I get a round of applause, but to be honest, I don't really want it. But, yeah, I'm gonna have it. Really? One penny. Yeah. April isn't as a ha'penny, so it's Yorkshire for hapenny. Have you parents from your family from Yorkshire or not? No. Upton on seven. Upton on. So. Gloucestershire. Yeah. It's not very far north at all. No, I'm 90% sure. I've given myself a round of applause now and I'm having a bit of. A. Bit of a panic attack. I'm not having a panic attack. It's a figure of speech. I want a stewards inquiry. I decide on those, mate, though, not you. I'm leaving it. All right. If there is a stewards inquiry, we will air it. But I think I've done. I think I'm 99.9% sure. It's a kind of indefinite apoth is ha'penny, and the reason why it would be used as an insult is presumably because it was. It was of little worth. I don't know. But we know what daft means. At least we can agree about that. 1213 is the time. Richard is in Walton. Richard, question or answer? I have a question. James. Carry on. You daft apoth. My question is, I've always wondered, when animals look at you, how have we decided how they look? Basically, dogs can see in black and white. Apparently, horses can see large objects and sizes. I've always wondered how we discovered, definitively, that they actually see what they see and we've discovered it. Yeah. Always wondered that. I mean, you'd be chopping up their eyes, wouldn't you? Chopping up their eyes and comparing it to others, but, yeah, because they say that, you know, do they see in three? D and fly? See in three. How the hell do they know? Exactly. That's a brilliant question. Yeah, I love it. Yeah. What? How do horses see? Apparently, I've heard horses see large objects, and that's why they don't get scared of human beings, apparently. Could be mistaken. All right. Okay. How do we know as humans, how they see things that we've said they see? Because we can't see what they see, because we're not them seeing the things that they see. We see the things that we see. This is, mate, this is huge. This is like a whithnail. And I question. This is like your hairs or your antennas. I'm hoping someone has an answer. I don't care. Now, it's such an amazing question. Is it insomniacure? You can lie there and try and work it out, but someone will have an answer. Someone has to. Unless. Unless we've just unearthed one of the greatest cons of human history. Richard in Walton has finally pulled the rug under from under centuries of science fraud, claiming that we know how horses see that we don't. How do you know you're not a horse? How do you know what a dog sees? You prune. You're a human. Love the word prune. You're on the list. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Why and when did men start shaving? Why is Humpty Dumpty depicted as an egg when there is nothing in the children's rhyme that speaks of ignus? And I'm 90% sure it's something to do with a cannon or a gun. So that would add to the mystery, wouldn't it? I'm pretty sure that the origin of the phrase daft apoth has been covered. But how do we as humans know how animals see, given that we're repeatedly told by clever people that they see differently from us? They might be seeing in black and white or in 3d, or in how. How what? Who? We. Peter is indulged. Peter, question or answer, answer for you. The shavings that originally started to basically repel lice. Keep the lice off your body. Oh, mate. And that was. That was. That was it. People used to shave their heads and their beard. The aristocracy used to bear wear the big wigs. And when. When. Oh, you talking back. I don't know. Well, that was the question. Yeah, probably 3400 years ago. You can't have. I'm not giving you a round of applause for that. Three or 400 years ago anyway. I mean, so that's why they did it anyway. No, I like the lice. I'll give you a little snatch of applause because I think it's nice to talk about lice when people are having a lunch. I do know the Egyptians used to shave their whole body. Well, then you've just dangled. Give that back then. Give that. You just said it was three or 400 years ago and now you've gone back to pre. You've gone back over 2000 years. Well, that wasn't actually shaving. But, yeah. What was it? I don't know. They got rid of it. But, uh, how do you know that then? On one of these horrible history programs? I saw it actually. We're watching it with the kids. Or do you just tune in yourself? Just with the kids? Yeah, it's very, very, very good. Horrible histories. Terry dearie is a force for good in this world. But I don't know that we've kind of answered it at all really. Well, okay. I mean, for example, did they shave in William the conqueror's time? Oh, I would have thought so. Back then, the one I remember it from was the big Marianne wigs the women used to wear because they were all bald underneath there because of vermin and lice. And that was vermin under their wigs. Vermin living in their wigs. Shut up. Vermin living in their wigs. Yep. Yeah, you're right. I've seen it on horrible history as well. I mean, I've enjoyed talking to you and I feel that we're both very clever and knowledgeable about historical matters. But we haven't even begun to answer the question that you rang in to answer, mate. I don't think you're going to find an exact date. Anyway. What you ring in for then? I mean, first of all, you said three or 400 years and then I said, what about William the conqueror in 1066? And you said, yeah, probably, yeah. Any Egyptians? Egyptians? Okay, so what we need to know is, archaeologically speaking in it, when they found the first signs of razors, I suppose. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Okay. Yeah. There you go. Cheers, Peter. That was an interesting interlude. Tristan is in. Barry St. Edmunds. Tristan. Question or answer? It's a question. Good. I'm an electrician and we use the term lumens to describe how bright and light is when we install one. Yeah. My question is, how many lumens is the sun? Because it's really bright and sunny today, and I always just wondered, how many lumens is the sun? Would it be. It wouldn't be the same every day, would it? No, but I suppose there should be an average, I suppose, lumens. So it's a unit of light. Yes. What's the biggest amount of lumens you've ever come across in a bulb? Probably seen one. This is about sort of 5000, so, I mean. Yeah, all right, you're on. Right. I like it. I mean, I don't know if it's a daft question or not, but it doesn't matter, does it? Because there's only one way to find out. I mean, it's just something that's always sort of. You have to presume that whatever illumina is, it was formulated with some reference to the sun, perhaps. Or not. I don't know. Well, possibly, yeah. You'd imagine so. I don't. I don't know how they actually measure it. It must be some sort of way of. You know, one human must equal something or other. Yeah. I love it. Yeah. All right, you're on. Yeah, busy at the moment. A lot of work on Tristan. Yeah. Yes. Absolutely mad at the moment. Glad to hear it, mate. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. So I suspect he's phoned in to talk about shaving. Hal? Hello. Good morning, James. No, no shaving. Good afternoon, mate. I just bigged you up as a professor and you flipping can't even tell the time. No, I'm supposed to be slightly absent minded. Oh, yeah, of course you are. Oh, yeah, you old absent minded academic, you. It's 24 minutes past twelve. Question or answer? I'd like to have a look at the one about animals seeing color and not seeing color. That's not really what the question was, professor. Well, I thought it was, but remind me anyway. How do we know how animals see? Okay, I can tell you that there's two answers, and one, yours was partly right. Yeah. There are two different cells in your retina. Rods and cones. And cones deal with colour, and rods deal with light or dark. And incidentally, while we're on it, stars twinkling is all caused by a single point of light touching a single rod. And as air moves around the atmosphere, it moves to the next rod, which is why stars appears to twinkle. That's a one side, so that you can dissect an eye and have a look at the back and you can see the rods and the cones and then make the jump that it must see in color. But also you can actually do positron emission tomography. You can actually image an animal's brain or a human's brain and show them different stimuli, and different areas of their brain will light up in response to that stimulus. So you show them a colored picture and a certain area of their brain will light up, which then gives you the answer that, yes, they're looking in color. Okay, but what about other stuff, like three d? And what do horses. What do horses see? I've turned into an apartment, right. So. Well, actually, horses don't see particularly one in three d at all. Horses are prey animals, and they have their eyes on either side of their head so they don't get the overlap that predators have, because they have their eyes at the front of their head. So animals that hunt tend to have their eyes at the front of their head so they can get 3d pictures of what's in front of them and therefore judge depth properly. Animals that are hunted tend to have their eyes at the side, so they get more all round views. They can look out for predators. So I think I'm on this. It's all about the rods and cones. So, because we've examined the human eye and broken down the relationship between rods and cones and perception, we can dissect a mammal's eye. And by looking at the relationship of rods and cones, we can work out what their vision would be. Yes, but we've answered two different questions now. We've answered about 3d vision. That's because we're fabulous. Nothing but round of applause. Great work. Jacob is in. Lincoln. Jacob, question or answer? It's a question, James, carry on. Okay, bear with me. This is. You might need to stop and ask if I'm not. If I'm not clear. It's about time. I'm trying not to get too einsteiny on you, but it's about relativity of time. So my question is, and I'll give you the tangible example first, as a one year old or a very young person, time seems to be very long. And when you're one, a year is double your age. It's a really familiar one for everyone is the school holidays when you're very young, seems that six week period seems like it lasts forever, but then when you get to the end of your life, 50, 60, 70 or even earlier. Yeah, well, exactly. Time seems to fly at an exponential rate. Yeah. You know, the six weeks that you may have enjoyed as a child, as a holiday goes by in a flash. So the question is, why does time speed up for us, relatively. And also then there's a sort of sub question, why do we then. This is mystery hour. I know that the university lecturers are on strike, but it's not, it's not. This isn't a substitute for, you know, sophisticated educational experience. It's mystery our, mate. I know, that's why I'm asking the question, because you need to answer the answer. So why does time speed up and slow down? Relatively. Relatively. Based on. Based on our age. It's not really based on our age, though. I think it is. No, it isn't. How old are you? 29. Yeah, I'm 46. Mate. You're wrong. Well, I know from my age that when I was six years old, in my experience then time went much slower than it does now. You think it did, you think it did because you only have noticed time when you were waiting for stuff. But that's the point. No, no, I understand, but this, I. Trust me, a lot of people listening to this time is dragging incredibly slowly. Even if they're 70 or 80 years old, mate. It's. It may drag slowly in certain experiences, but as a whole period, I'm going to start banging my head on the desk in a minute. I mean, what. Go on. What was the next bit of the question? Why then? If this. If this is true or not, which I think it is, I think it's something to do with experience. I'm not sure, but I think it's something to do with the amount of experience. I never felt like. I feel that you're actually hijacking my show now. No, really? No, it's a question, I think. I think it's legitimate, but I think you're sort of. This is like one of my introductions. I think you're sort of setting up a worldview and then inviting people to challenge it. Well, that's the question. Why is it? I want someone to tell me why it is when we get older, we experience time differently. And the second bit of the question is, I suspect you're going to suggest we should measure time differently in order to reflect this relativity. Why can't we but this is nuts, mate. Gut feeling. It's a real gut feeling of mine that I've sort of thought about for a long time. He is doing it. He's doing an intro. He's doing my show. What number do people need to ring to answer your questions, Jacob? I don't want to. Well, I don't want to get bombarded with a load of calls. Well, don't give out your own number. Give out mine, you melon. What is your number? The one you just dialed. 345-606-0973 there you go. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. This mystery is underway. Some answers achieved, some still waiting. When did we start shaving? I loved the chat I had with Peter in Dulich about license vermin and wigs, but it didn't really address the question of what's the historical evidence? Someone's gone for Alexander the Great. That's pretty early, apparently, so that his soldiers wouldn't get grabbed by the beard. That would make sense, but that would just be a trim. That'd be like a beard trim rather than an actual shave. What's the first recorded incident of a shaver? A razor being found. I love that question. Humpty Dumpty. Why is he depicted as an egg? Given that we think he was probably a gun, and there's nothing in the children's rhyme that suggests eggness anyway. Zero, three, four, five, six. Zero, six. Zero, nine, seven. Three. Lumens. It's not the sun. We've done that before. The lumen. A single lumen is the light emitted by a single candle. Thank you to all the people who've reminded me of that. So the question is still sound. How many lumens is the sun? Zero. 345-606-0973 have I got anything else? Have I missed any out? Is anyone else paying attention or is it all. What was the last fellow asking? About time he went a bit mad, didn't he? Time, yeah. And that thing. About time that that feller asked thing why Neil is in Wigan. Neil. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Neil. Given that there are over 30 million vehicles on the UK roads, all have got in the main four tires with 120 million tires which all wear down. Where's the rubber go? Pardon? Anymore? Where does the rubber go? Yeah, our roads are building up by. Yeah. They're not, though, are they? Think about it. Is it all in the atmosphere? Yes, it is. Where is it? Yeah. You've just answered. You're a genius. It literally is it's dust. It's dust. It's dust and it goes. It behaves like all other dust does. It gets blown away and by the wind and dispersed by the rain and it's all in it. We're breathing it in. It's dust. Well, I did a rough calculation. 38.4 million rubber are in the atmosphere. That's mad. Well, I mean, yeah, but only if you don't mention how much atmosphere there is. What is that as a percentage of the whole atmosphere? Oh, I'll. Wait a minute. I asked the question. No, you don't. You're the genius. Didn't you get the memo? I couldn't give you that one. But it's a silly number, you daft apath. It's 38.4 million watts, though. You've just said a number and it sounds enormous. But if it was, you know, if it was 30, if it was 0.01% of everything, suddenly it doesn't sound so enormous anymore, does it? No, you're right. So dust is the answer. It's dust. It's all dust. We've had it before, we've done it before and someone clever answered and I remember. Okay, good one. Nice one. Cheers, Neil. God bless you. James is in. Ealing. James, question or answer? Hey there. Question for you. Carry on. So when it comes down to different countries, and they're very cultures from each other, why, when it comes to their national anthem, they all sound very similar. They've all got this european orchestral sound to them. So for example, I was thinking the japanese or chinese anthem should sound a bit more east and asianly. The South Americans just had a bit more salsary, the Middle Eastern just had a bit more araby. But they all got this european big orchestral sound to them. Well, I mean, if they're all being played by orchestras, they're going to sound orchestral even the way they're composed. They're not. They're not true to their national identity. How does the japanese national anthem go? Well, it's got a go on. Why not? I mean, you can't come on the radio and make claims about something without evidence. When you're watching the ceremony at the Olympics and the award ceremony, you'd expect all the different anthrams to be. To be so different from each other. Mate, no offense, but how did you get put through? You'd have to ask your team. Why is it though? I mean, if I was in charge of a country and it was the Middle east. The country. But you need to give me an example. I don't know what you're talking about. You've said, why does it all sound orchestral? And I've said, because they're all being played by orchestras. So is that. These are the anthems they put forward. They're not. They're not. They're not played by a certain band. They're not like, you have to have this band playing them for you. You submit your piece, I'm gonna give you a red card in a minute. I flipping am. It's a stupid question from a stupid person. So think about South America. I am thinking about South America. Well, sing me some songs, then. Give me a south american anthem. Well, I can't do that. But then you can't say it doesn't sound south american, then. What I'm trying to say is there's an absence of the bongos and there's an absence of, you know, acoustic guitars. Instead, they're all going to be on violins and big. Because they were all written at the time when orchestral music was the most commonplace. No, they weren't. The whole world didn't listen to european classical music. They all. That's why I'm asking for you to show me something that doesn't sound. I'm moving on. I'm seriously, I'm gonna have. I'm gonna bust a blood vessel in a minute. You've been sent here to try my patience. Also, people are gonna get fired as a result of you being put on air. I hope you're happy about that. All right. Sorry. It's all right. Don't ever do it again. We need to talk. Erin is in Edinburgh. Erin, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Go on. It's all gone a bit weird now. It was going brilliantly, wasn't it, for about first half an hour and then some things. I blame that time bloke. The bloke asked about time. It's all. Yeah, that's the question I was going to answer. Oh, flipping eck. Gone, then. So it's all about how old you are and how long that year is in your life. So, for instance, if you're ten years old, 10%, one year is 10% of your life, but if you're 100 years old, one year is 1% of your life. So it was quite a good question, then. It was. Katie's just tweeted to say the question about national anthems was totally legit as well. Oh, this is all going backwards. So. Yeah, it wasn't a great question, though, because I know this, because I've heard it on mystery hour. Yeah. And I'm really annoyed because the first time I've ever rung into mystery hour, it's about a blooming question that's already been on because I listen every single week without fail. Yeah, but, mate, you could have run in another time. It's your choice to ring in on this one. Yeah, I know, but I've had to call, like, 70 odd times just today just to answer this question. Oh, really? So I'm not going to apologize for being incredibly popular? You don't need to. No, thank you. Um, you've got a round of applause, though. And the second bit of the question was stupid because that would involve everybody living by different clocks according to how old they are. Yeah, cool. Well done. No, well done. And, you know, take heart from Erin's example. You see, patience. Patience is rewarded. And now I'll get someone saying, how does Wayne in Basildon get on every week if Erin had to ring in 70 times? I do not know. Joe Sheffield, question or answer? Hello, James. I think I've got an answer for you, mate. Bring it on, Joe. Right, okay. So we're thinking about razors and where they come from in terms of, like, prehistory and that. Yeah. So my old mate Ray Mears. What in what was on the telly, you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Back in the days of Doggerland, before man moved away from the beach and started living in caves or whatever. Parents overland, for people who don't know, was the land bridge between continental Europe and the, you know, what is now the United Kingdom is when we were all one big landmass. Yeah, that's right. Four continental drifts happened and everything. Razor clams. You have been to the beach and seen those long, rectangular clams? Of course I have. Yeah. I've eaten them. So. So prehistoric man used to eat them and then use the shells to shave himself. And I think we've already answered the question, why, you serious parasites. Naturally, you're gonna get nits and everything, living in nature. So you shave all the hair off. No more crab qualification? Steady. Qualifications? None. I've just seen Ray mirrors on the telly. That's it. Now, that's a qualification, Joe. They're brilliant. Qualified. That's it. That's it. So the razor clan would have been the first recorded instance of show. How do they know that they used them to shave, though? They didn't leave any sort of messages. They aren't just the shells they see. They carved handle into them. So it's like a razor shell with a handle on. That's obviously, like. It's beautiful. Absolutely. And that's about as old as history is anyway, because, I mean, you know, practically really talking about the beaker people. Practically. Aren't we on this or even. No, that's later. Probably. Probably later on than that. Yeah. Yeah. Round of applause for Joe. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We've got a question about Humpty Dumpty, razor clams. If he was yanking my chain, old Sheffield boy. There's going to be trouble. There's going to be, there will be blood, national anthems. There's been a bit of a volt farce, reverse ferret. Turns out it's a really, really good question. And I'm very sorry that I said it was a stupid question being asked by a stupid person. I'd like to withdraw that accusation now. We don't need to get him back on. We haven't got enough time. James and Ealing. I'm sorry, Alex is in York. Alex, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Alex. I want to challenge the nice lady that was on a few minutes ago talking about time and how your brain works. Oh, okay. But Erin, Erin has just sent me a picture of her phone record proving that she did actually dial in over 60 times to get through. And now you're going to take away the round of applause that she received? Well, no, I'm going to try to. I'm prepared to be wrong, but go on, then. You're on the right show. I've been listening a long time. I know I am. The theory is something along the lines of that when you are younger, you're experiencing things for maybe the first or second time, but consequently, your brain logs things differently. And when you experience something again and more frequently through life, your brain actually files it in a different way because you've already experienced it. So when you're young and you're doing something like learning to ride a bike, you can remember learning to ride a bike because it's the first time you ever did it. But things like going, let's say going to work, you do the same thing every day, every day, every day. And because you're doing that, your brain is experiencing it over and over again, so it doesn't feel it necessary to log it in the same way. So consequently, when you're younger, you've got lots and lots and lots of new experience which you remember as you get older, you have fewer brand new experiences. So as you, as you're an older person, you literally. They say what you should do to control things is to put yourself in a position where you're doing something new, if not every day, all the time. And that way it slows down the speed up of time. Qualifications. I used to be human, stupid, and listen to a different radio station and actually heard somebody talking about that. But I've learned my lesson now. I've listened to LBC now. Fair enough. How do you know that they weren't right? That they were wrong though? Right? On the other radio station, was it a grown up? Was it. Was it an academic thing? Was an academic person? They were talking about memory retention and how. Yeah, fair enough. Dementia affects different people in different ways. Like it. I am not going to withdraw Erin's round of applause because she was so charming. Fair enough. But I am going to give you one. Okay. Nice work, Alex. Also, I got a tweet. Alex, are you still there? I am, yeah. I got a tweet from an old mate of mine from. From my newspaper days yesterday. I haven't heard from him for 20 years and he lives in York and we're going to go out for a beer. Next time I'm up there, can you find out if I'm still barred from the Lendell cellars? But you probably are because everybody knows your reputation. Since 1990 though there's got to be a statute of limitations. Alex, God bless. Keith is in Clacton on sea. Keith, question or answer? Right answer. The sun. 10,000 loomings per square foot. If you multiply that by the square footage of the sun, the mass of the sun, you will get the full amount. But it's 10,000 loomings or 10,000 candle power per square foot. Qualifications? Well, it's Dar O'Brien and Brian Cox on their astrology programs. You remember the number 10,000 lm/sqft it's just one of those stupid things. It just drops in your brain. I like that. It's not a stupid thing at all. Some of us have built entire careers on being able to retain useful pieces of information and pull them out at an opportune moment. On that. On your career, Brian. Mister O'Brien or O'Brien? If we. We were going to go back to the original. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Keith. That's a thing of beauty. Thank you. It better be true though, otherwise why? It's too late now. He's at it. 1253 is the time. Neil's in Harlow. Neil, question or answer? Question, please. James. Oh, cutting it fine, but let's see what we can do. Nobody. Just a quick one. Country lanes in the UK. Why are they all bendy and not straight like in America and Australia? All our country lanes, things are winding and out. Yeah, but I mean. What? I mean, they're not all straight in America. No, that's probably wrong. Yeah. The majority. Well, they're much younger. They're much younger countries, aren't they? So true. Yeah. The reason why everything would be so windy is because of who was responsible for doing it. You just really be your farm, wouldn't it? And you needed to get access to your farm. There wouldn't have been a state organization or a government coming in to do it. The Romans built incredibly straight roads, but post roman, everything would have been a bit of a hotch potch. Yes, I understood the hills. We were in Devon for half term, not the one that's just gone. I was in hospital for that one. And that's really windy around there. But the reason, I would say, is because the tracks would have been established by the actual farmers and they'd have gone around fields, wouldn't they? Because that isn't my field. So the track needs to go down. That's. Oh, there's a stream, there's an enormous tree. We'll go around that one. Do you see what I mean? Yes. No, I don't. Yes. That'll be. It, won't. It is explored a little bit. It's a great question. I just think I've answered it. You have? Maybe. What do you mean, maybe? Oh, yes. Because it must be that. I'll leave it on the board for a couple of minutes, but I haven't had much applause today. And you know what my egos like. Needs regular feeding, otherwise it might start shrivelling up. Peter is in Leighton. Peter, question or answer? I've got an answer to Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall. Yes. Go on, then. Well, the reason it's the egg's not mentioned is that originally it was written as a riddle. So egg was the answer. Go on. Wouldn't have put it in the riddle. So what was the riddle? Well, Humpty. I'm certain men couldn't put Humpty together again. Yeah. So the riddle is, what is Humpty Dumpty is a gun and the answer is an egg. He's a cannon. Well, other people have tried to put historical sort of things that some people think it's Richard. Why couldn't it be a glass? What? Because the answer was an egg? No. If a riddle has to admit only one answer. Otherwise it's not a riddle. Oh, I'm not sure. Riddles only have one answer. Well, it's not a riddle, then, is it? It has to be. It's not a riddle. What are you talking about? The egg not mentioned. Yes, it's because it was a riddle. Therefore, you can't put the answer. The whole point of the question is, why is he always depicted as an egg? Because the answer to the riddle was an egg, not a riddle. Because if anything breaks and can't be put back together again, if any, it could be a wine bottle. Well, that's true. Could be a record. I didn't write the riddle. It's not a riddle. It is a riddle. It was. And then. They've tried to put historical context. It's not tried to put historical context on it. No. It's all about cannons, mate. No. Other than somebody think it was a cannon. Calm down. It's only a game show. And it fell off a wall. It's not. I'm not having it. Okay, sorry. Sorry. No, you don't. You'd be sorry. I just. If it is a riddle, and I'll have to eat some humble pie, but right now it's not happening. Okay, all right. It was popularized by Lewis Carroll. Yeah, and he used the egg. Still not a riddle. No. Okay. No, I've. All right. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Henry's in Harnhill. Henry. Hun Hill. Questions? How are you? I'm all good, thank you. Yeah. I have an uncle called James O'Brien, by the way. Do you really? I've got a brother in law with a wine shop in Herne Hill. Do you think we're related? You have. Do you know him? Is he the little one under the. Under the bridge? That's the fellow, yes. Yeah, he's nice. He is. He's a top lad. He is. I know what you're thinking. You must. Yeah, we must be related by marriage. Not biologically, because he's absolutely charming. Now, where were we? Question or answer? I'm the animal. The. Sorry. The windy roads. Question. Windy lanes. I think we followed the animals years ago, because I was brought up on a farm, and if you put a load of cattle out in springtime, you'll find, after a couple of months, that they've made their own paths from one area to another. And that path is usually quite flat. They're quite clever at weaving their way around the side of a hill to get. I reckon we probably followed them. Yeah. I won't account for everything, will it? But it is nice. Lovely, that. Yeah. Qualifications. Grew up in the countryside. Grew up on a farm. Grew up on a farm. Round of applause for Henry. In the north part of Ireland. Give my love to your Uncle James. Thanks, James. All right? Is he a James? He's not a shamers. He's James O'Brien. He's a prime lucky fella. It's 1258. That's it from Phil. Go squeeze in Phil in Liverpool. Hi, James. I don't know about codswallop, about razor shells. Don't you start. Um. Well, you get yourself upside upstairs with a soap and a shell and see how far you get scraping your fizz off. I will. Okay. I can. Sharpened off the shelves, mate. No, they didn't. They did. It goes back to stone Age. Man napping shards of flint. And they were using those to scrape the fur off animal pelts so they could get at the proper leather. I saw it done that. I can't remember his name. That lovely guy that's on time team with the white beard and the stripy jumper. Yeah. He was cat weasel. Well, I don't know, but he was showing us how it was called not mapping. Yeah, no. God, because that's what. Even on a cloth, that little, tiny little bit that you. Yeah. I'm gonna give you a round of applause, but I'm not taking away the other fellas, because that was true as well. And I like razor clams. We do the lot this week. I think we came close. Except Humpty Dumpty, oddly. Well, it turns out if it was a riddle, I'm never mentioning that again. Speaking of riddles, here's Sheila Fogarty. Don't mess with Scousers is the lesson you should take away from this program. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.