Do fish get thirsty?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. This is mystery hour, and my goodness me, every week it seems to be more welcome than it was the week before. Your weekly opportunity to get the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available on the radio, you ring in with a question as silly or as serious as you like. Just don't be rubbish. I've changed the rules for 2018. Don't be rubbish. You know if a question's rubbish. We've been doing this for years. If you've got a question about baby pigeons or white dog poo, you're wasting both of our times. It's an attempt to, I don't know, entertain and educate and illuminate all at the same time. But speaking of which, I've worked out who I am in the context of british politics. Should we crack on with mister in a minute? Can I go off on one for a couple of minutes first, or do I need to drum up more business? If you've got a good question that's not rubbish, then ring 034-56-0609 at 73. If you're new to this, who, why, what, where, when, whether, whither, wherefore, even the occasional whence, that's how it works. You ring in, you ask a question, somebody else knows the answer and they will ring in with it. You can be as academic or otherwise as you please, but I've worked out who I am. It's taken me a while to work it out. They're taking calls on Brexit, which obviously have played, I suppose, a positive part in my professional life, but they genuinely do sadden me on a personal level. I am the bloke who sees a man beating up his girlfriend outside the pub, musters up the courage to go over and intervene, and ends up getting whacked by the girlfriend and told to sod off and stop interfering. I speak for people because I feel that they've been lied to. And when I prove that they've been lied to, they get cross with me. What a cross to bear on your behalf, honestly. A martyr for our ages. The first Brexit martyr. That's it, isn't it? You hear these calls, you're as close to the action as I am. Here is someone who has believed some lies, in this case, Suella Fernandez, talking absolute gibberish on question time. But people need to keep believing it, so they somehow construct an astonishingly complicated, nonsensical theory that allows her not to be talking gibberish. It has one little thread poking out the bottom of it. I give the thread a tug, the whole thing falls to pieces and your man gets across with me. That's it. I am the bloke stopping a fight, stopping abuse, stopping a man from lamping his girlfriend outside apartment. When I go over, the girlfriend turns on me and so does he. While we're at it. Although not quite as violently as she does. Oddly, six minutes after twelve is the time. I'm glad we've cleared that up. Mystery hour is fun. It is also dependent, even more than the rest of the program on you. The rest of the program, whatever the topic is, on a good day, I could do the hour myself. Uninterrupted mystery hour without you would be a little bit ridiculous. It would be like, I don't know, chocolate without cocoa. Oh, three four is the number you need. You may have seen the newspaper or the magazine equivalent where somebody writes in with a question, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What is the origin of this? What is the origin of that? And then a few weeks later, somebody else writes in with the answer. And that's what we try to do here. Should we start in Jersey? I think we will. We'll start in Jersey. That's where Shannon is. Shannon, question or answer? Question. Are you ringing from school? Yes. Did your teacher tweet me earlier? Yes. Good. I was worried that we might lose you in the, in the avalanche of callers to the program. What is your teacher's name? Mister Watt. Because I only know his christian name. McLemons. Mister McClemons has done great work here. This is a great augmentation to your education. What is your question, Shannon? And we'd like to know what about star signs? So who invented them, where did they come from and how they were done? What, what subject? Is this part of? Science? Is it? Yeah. Star signs in science? Well, like it's all a bit brexit ETH. Yes. Okay. No, I like it. I like it a lot. Um, and I can ask you a personal question. Yeah. What do you think of show offs? They're funny. Funny. That's all right. I can live with that. I think I know the answer to this one, but I'm not going to show off. I'm going to wait for a proper expert to ring in. Because this is a science lesson. This isn't a sort of big gob on the radio lesson. You want some actual instruction and knowledge, don't you? Yeah. All right. Leave it with me. And give my love to Mister McLemons. What year are you in? Six year. Six. Final year of primary school. Fantastic. What a time to be discovering the magic that is. Mystery hour should be part of the national curriculum. This. Shannon, mind. How'd you go? What is the origin of star signs? Zero 345-606-0973 Steve is in ricelip. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Steve. I just wondered why Scotland Yard was called Scotland Yard when it's in London and not Scotland. Yeah, well, this is a bit like the time I interviewed Peter Andre and he told me that he was turning on the Christmas lights on Oxford street and he was really surprised to learn that it wasn't in Oxford. Isn't it? That was about a million years ago. I can't even remember whether it was in this job or another one. I knew this, but I've forgotten it. And sometimes I keep you on the line in the hope that the penny will drop and the memory will resurface it something to do with moving. Scotland Yard wasn't originally where it is now. But you want a proper answer, don't you? Not one of my cobbled together. Yes, please. Yeah, all right. Why is Scotland Yard called Scotland Yard? That'll do. We don't need to refer to the fact that it's not in Scotland any more than we have to refer to the fact that Oxford street is not in Oxford. Mark is in Sunbury. Mark. Question or answer? Question. James. Good afternoon to you. Happy New Year. That's very kind. Look at you. Thank you. Same to you, sir. With knobs on. Thank you. Right. I was doing some housework the other day. Yes, I was. And I started doing some dusting. And I want to know why are traditional dusters colored yellow? That's a lovely question. It is one that we've dealt with before. But frankly, if we start excluding people on the grounds that we've dealt with it before, we'll end up pretty much going around in a great big circle again. I know this, but I've forgotten. Oh, this is going to come to me. Yellow dusters. Yeah, dusters. There's a reef, the clock, any color. Couldn't. No, I know. You're interfering with my thought processes. That's right. And then it does. Not gonna happen, mate. Yellow duster. Scotland Yard and star signs. What a hat trick. How much housework were you doing? A lot. On average, a man does 5 hours a week less than a woman. Even if they think that they're sharing duties equally as in the news today. Did you know that? No, it didn't actually. No. Does it tally. No, no. In our house, it doesn't tally either or misses. O'Brien would furiously disagree. But I add the amount of time I spend restacking the dishwasher after she's done it in a comically disastrous way. And she would argue that that isn't actually time spent doing housework, that's time spent faffing about and being dishwasher based. Pedantic. But of course, she's profoundly wrong. Mark. Thank you. Why are dusters bright yellow? Why is Scotland Yard called Scotland Yard? And just give me the history. This is for Shannon and her classmates. Jersey. The origin of star signs tarot. But I need a proper, like, full on, definitive boom. No one's going to question that. You sound like an expert. Here's a round of applause. Type answer. Danny is in Ashford. Danny, question or answer? Hi, James. When you go to a supermarket and buy cucumbers, they're individually wrapped in plastic. They are. For now. Yeah, for now. But apples and other things with a tough skin aren't. Why would they just wrap cucumbers? That's the first thing they could do, is probably cut down on plastic on them, surely. Keep some fresher. Does it? Why did it keep apple fresher as well, then? Why don't they wrap the apples? Because it's not a cucumber. You compare, you know that old figure of speech when people are comparing two things that aren't the same and they say, no, mate, you're comparing apples with pears. Well, I'm going to re. I'm going to rejig that for the 20 for 2018 and say, now, Danny, mate, you're comparing apples with cucumbers. A little bit different flavor, different shape, apart from that, much of a much less. So it's got to be freshness, hasn't it? Because, I mean, they come from further away than apple. No, they don't. It's got to be something to do with freshness. Yeah, I'd like to know. I'm really interested. Are you? We might be getting a bit carried away, mate. Why? You can't be that interested in why cucumbers are wrapped in plastic. I was just trying to think of something topical to phone him for, actually. And I thought, well, that is topical with all the plastic stuff that's going on. Teresa may casting herself as the plastics prime minister, which is accurate in all sorts of ways. Hopefully my friend Andreas is listening. One of London's premier greengrocers. He will definitely know this. He knows an awful lot of stuff, not just about green grocery but unfortunately he's very busy running his shop, so he doesn't always get the chance to listen to Mister arrow unless he's out doing a delivery in his van. I will get a DM on Twitter in the next 30 seconds if he's got me on in the van at the moment. Why are cucumbers wrapped in plastic when, as Danny rightly points out, plenty of other food stuffs? Because you might have said, oh, it's all to do with hygiene and germs. It makes sure that the cucumber isn't covered in grubby fingerprints. Yeah, well, apples. Liz is in Virginia water in Surrey. Liz, question or answer? Question, Keith. Thanks, carry on. Why does the row of letters represent sleep? Like in an emoji when you're texting? It's an onomatopoeia of sorts, I think, which is not another word for an incontinent cat. It's because that's the noise you make when you're asleep. Well, I don't go. Of course you don't, but how else would you represent. What noise do you make when you're asleep? I don't know. Grief, you're weird. You need to see a doctor. But no, you don't go. But you do arguably go. No, of course it is. What noise does a bee make? A bee? Yeah. See, no one ever queries that. It's a rough representation, which is by far from being objectively true of all people who are sleeping. It's a rough representation of the noise that you make when you're asleep. Ergo become a catch all term for sleeping. That's. You can't mean. Come on, there can't be any other explanation, can there? I don't know. Yes, you do. They can't be. By all that is holy, by the laws of the land and beyond, it's a noise you do not go. Okay, so how would you write it down then? The noise that you make when you sleep, the one that everyone would recognize right across the country, is representing sleep? Well, it's only because it's become recognized, isn't it? Don't give me the chicken and egg argument. I'm in charge. What would you do instead of z for people like getting a few Z's? Um, I don't know. Yeah. Well, there you go. Until you come up with a better answer, I'm right. All right, thank you very much. Round of applause. 12:15 you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. My friend is listening. I have my cucumber answer. But you're not allowed to answer via any means other than the phone. So I'm going to use Andreas's cucumber answer. Why did we wrap cucumbers in plastic? I'm going to use that as the benchmark against which I judge your answers. So he is now in the previously exclusive role, exclusive to me, of arbitrating mystery out. Other questions that need answers. Why are dusters bright yellow? I know we've done a couple of these before, but it's a new year. I haven't decided whether I'm going to change the rules of mystery out yet. And I've got so many more listeners than I had when I started doing this isn't boasting, it's just counting. I've got so many more listeners than I had when I started doing mystery hour that a huge number of people listening won't know that we've done the yellow dusters question before. I would, however, remind you that there's a very carefully curated archive at LBC Dot co dot UK comma, where you can have a little look at some of the things that have happened before. Graham's in Orpington. Graham, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Graham. It's regarding the Scotland Yard question. Scotland Yards called Scotland Yard because the original headquarters of the Metropolitan Police was at great Scotland Yard. It's quite literally Scotland's yard. It was empty. I think it was the back door, but it became known because presumably that's where the officers went in and out. It became known as Scotland Yard and it became synonymous with London police, didn't it? Yeah. It's like the current Metropolitan police headquarters is now closer to Scotland Yard than it has been for decades because it's back, pretty much back where it was previously. Is great Scotland Yard still there? Great Scotland Yard is still. The street is still there. Yeah, the street. The street where the. Where the headquarters used to be, but isn't. It was definitely the back entrance, but isn't anymore. Yeah. The streets still there. I've passed by it several times and therefore we're back to Oxford street. So do we know why it was called great Scotland Yard in the first place? Because it was Scotland Yard. It was embassy ground. This is before the United Kingdom. You know, the villain of Scotland. Scotland. That's what we wanted. English, you know, that's what we want. So it was in Whitehall. It would once have been the kind of scottish consulate, if you like, scottish representation in Whitehall palace by Whitehall. Mate. Qualifications? Tour guide, straight in. That was beautifully done. I want to ask you something. What bits do you cover? Is it just all. Anything London y or. Oh, no. It was Westminster Vauxhall. I was part of London duck tours, whereas they're no longer trading. So I haven't actually done any tour guiding for a little bit of time. But history doesn't tend to change in the. In that sort of. Not yet. Give it another couple of years before we start rewriting history to accommodate Trump and Brexit. But for now, at least, we're fairly safe. I would love to do what you do, but I can't retain the memories. I read several books about London history in the hope of being able to amaze my listeners with my knowledge. And then it just goes in one ear and out the other. What do you do to retain it? How do you keep it in there? Because you do the same route all the time. It's basically like being a comedian. You do a set list, you just have, like, you know, fair enough. Pass by this, pass by that. You can't. You kind of goes a bit wrong when there's like a road closure going down unfamiliar streets, because it throws. It throws your memory a tad. Yeah. Going around, going. Lots of new buildings. This was all bombed. Anyone from Germany, it all gets a bit awkward. Do you know who Frederick Hitch was? Doesn't ring a bell now. He was the only. I mean, after the burwa, he became a London cab driver. And he remains the only man ever to have driven a London cab who received a Victoria cross. And he's buried in Chiswick? In Chiswick burial ground. And my eldest, who's fascinated by history and local history in particular. We found it on New Year's Eve. We found the grave. It was a very lovely thing to do. Bear that in mind. Thank you. If you're ever in that neck of the woods, 23 minutes after twelve. I mentioned that because whenever we're discussing Uber on this program, and remember, you get a Victoria cross for immense bravery, usually in the protection of your comrades, I grant you. It wasn't a boat, it was a Zulu. It was Rorke's drift, specifically. So I grant you that it's a controversial military episode. But in terms of demonstrating great bravery and exposing yourself to great personal risk in order to protect and save your comrades, we can all agree that it's a good thing. That's what he got a Victoria cross for. And I invoke the spirit of Frederick Hitch on this program. Whenever we're discussing Uber, Lee is in Wokingham. Question or answer? Lee. It's an answer, James. Bring it on. It's with reference to the yellow duster. It was when boats were sail pap, obviously from the high season. They were all sailors and they used to come into the port rife with disease and they used to stand off port with a yellow flag displaying that they were actually clean and they could come into port. So the yellow flag became just a by word for clean. Yeah. Qualifications? Well, I've been a cleaning contractor for 30 years. I thought you were going to give me a naval qualification, not a cleaning qualification. I love it. I don't even own a. And I'm a member of the Environmental Cleaners association in London and it's come up. Has it? Well, no. I was just chatting to one of the old chaps here and I just said one day with yellow, and he told me and I sort of stuck. How do you know? So this was a while ago. This wasn't today. Oh, no. This was 2030 years ago. Fair enough. I love this answer. I thought we'd done this before and I'm not sure that was the answer I got, but I prefer this to whatever answer we did get. This is a beautiful answer. You have a little yellow flag on your boat coming into port to say that you were sort of all clean, all ship shape and Bristol fashion. Be a bit. It'd be a big flag. It wouldn't be a little one. Yeah, all right. You know, size isn't everything, Lee. Yeah. No. Would you like a round of applause? Well, either that or. Lyotta. You're not getting a Liotta for being a cleaner, mate. Oh, come on. Give. The second you get, you get. Lyotta. If you're an astronaut, I could be. I might as well give. You never even asked about that, did you? I might as well give Juan a round of applause. Juan comes into the studio every morning at about 11:10 to have a 11:15 to clear up Nick Ferrari's mess. And I might as well give him a round. You're not exactly what I would call on the ground as a profession. Oh, well, good ones are, anyway. You're not getting a Liotta. You can have a round of applause and be grateful for it. What's wrong with saying they're not thinner? There's lots of people. There's more cleaners in this country than there are astronauts. That is not controversial. It's counting. 25 minutes after twelve, Richard is in Hoddesden. Question or answer? Richard, there's a question. Go on, then. Please. Do fish consciously, become thirsty or get thirsty? No. Okay. Is that the answer? Well, how can a fish get thirsty? They breathe by ingesting water or inhaling water. I know, but they never not. They've never not got water in their mouth. I know, but sometimes would they potentially think, oh, I need a drink now and then and drink that water that they're swimming in? No. Round of applause for me. If it happens again and it turns out I'm wrong, then I'm probably just not going to take the call. Tony's in Edinburgh. Tony, question or answer? It's an answer. Before you talk about that, how do you feel about the great unfolding iron brew scandal? Oblivious to it. Can't stand the stuff, mate. Are you not aware of this because we nearly did an hour on it. I'm trying to woo scottish listeners and I don't want to talk about independence every time I want to woo scottish listeners. So this time I thought we'd talk about iron Brew. Can you talk, my, my listeners south of the border through exactly why iron Brew is in the news so heavily in Scotland at the moment. They're apparently in. My kind of scant information I have on it are changing the formula when they're all up in arms. There is fury. Apparently there's stockpiling going on they're going to be getting rid of. Yes. Is it true? Stockpiling? I haven't seen it. No. You haven't gone native? You're not partial to a little tipple of iron brood? Sadly not too sweet for me, James. Too sweet. When's the last time you had a really stocious hangover? I managed to make it through Hogmanay without a hangover, probably about three or four months ago. That's when you need an iron brew. Absolutely, absolutely. That is the cure of choice up here. Can you remember why you rang in? Yes. Cucumbers. Cucumbers. In the majority of places, whole cucumbers are sold unwrapped. It's the portion cucumbers that are wrapped because they're classed as a prepared fruit and veg. And once a veg becomes prepared, it has to be wrapped. And if it's being chopped enough, you at least want the end to be covered. But that's not. The questioner was specifically referring to whole cucumbers. We've all seen whole cucumbers that are wrapped. If they're wrapped, James, it's usually for cosmetic purposes. They don't require to be wrapped, it's just that the retailer chooses to do it. There is no requirement for the two wrapped because they have a natural protective cover. The greengrocer advisor in chief to this program, Andreas, concurs with your view. He blames it on the spanish, on the espanols. He says they're a bit obsessed with wrapping up all veggies and fruits. We're pretty cool here. So UK grown cucumbers may well be unwrapped, but generally speaking, it is utterly unnecessary. It is unnecessary, yeah. Because there isn't any part of the cucumber that's exposed as, like, where a portion cucumber? No, of course I might. We're not talking about the portions, are we? Talking about your whole cucumbers? And in fact, my greengracer advisor in chief goes further and says, if anything, the cellophane contributes to the over wateriness and bitter tastes that the cucumber will end up with if it sweats. So you're going to get a less fresh cucumber, in a way, by having it wrapped up in a watertight container than you would if it was allowed to breath. Sorted qualifications? Ex fruit and veg manager. A major retailer. That'll do nicely. All human life is here. And some cucumbers. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you'd like to ask a question or if you can explain the origin of star signs. Is that it? That's it. Wow. And the firsty fish one, which may well lend itself to an opportunity to make me look like a mug, in which case I might not let you on air, but I always do. It's ridiculous. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I've got a new favorite Brexit analogy. This is brilliant. And you've not signed it as well, so I'm going to claim it as my own. Brexit is very similar to the play Othello. James Othello is the british voter. Desdemona is the wife he killed is Europe. Desdemona, the wife he killed is Europe. And the Brexit lobby is Iago, who convinced Othello to destroy his marriage with hate filled, false information. The real effects emerged too late to save the marriage. Oh, my days. Beware, my lord, of jealousy. It is the green eyed monster that doth mock the meat it feeds on, and that's what it's all about. And of course, Coleridge, as you'll know, described Iago, cited in this analogy as the Brexit lobby. Coleridge described Iago as motiveless malignancy, and that's probably where the analogy falls. Down because I don't think the malignancy is motiveless. It's built upon a false premise, but it's not just done for. Or maybe it is just done for fun, you know, let's just wreck it. Be funny. Thank you for that. And silly, silly mistake not putting your name on it because I'll be passing that off as my own for the rest of this year. 1235 is the time. Mystery out is underway. A little bit of questioning coming in about the fish question. We shall see. I need to know the origin of star signs. There's a lovely. I must find it. Actually. There's a really lovely contribution from. I can't find it now. A cab driver who also doubles up as a tour guide suggesting that Scotland Yard, because you'd have had great Scotland Yard, middle Scotland Yard and little Scotland Yard or lesser Scotland, I don't know. But it was where the scottish kings lived prior to James VI of Scotland, James I of England acceding to this throne and retaining the scottish throne. The scottish kings would of course visit London. When we were two separate countries, we had two separate monarchies. So there was. That was what the original Scotland Yard was. And the back door of the head of the Metropolitan Police Service opened out onto great Scotland Yard. I'm sorry I can't find your name because this was a really lovely contribution. I don't know whether it's true or not, but there's a suggestion that James brought some scottish soil with him and sprinkled it around this particular corner of Whitehall so he'd always have somewhere he could go to walk on scottish soil. That's really, really nice. And the Frederick Hitch thing has touched a few rung a few bells among the black cab driving community of London. Further to your knowledge, the Worshipful company of Hackney carriage drivers annually presents the Frederick Hitch award to a black cab driver who's displayed bravery. I was going to ring in and tell you, but I can never get through during mystery hour, writes Rob, who's a London black cab driver. George and Enfield tells me that Frederick Hitch is pub is still there as well over in Enfield. I think it's called the George. Interesting stuff. Tracy's in Ealing. Question or answer? Tracy? Question. Carry on. Why do men's ears and noses get bigger as they get older? Is it just men? I think so. I know somebody mentioned that women do, but I've checked out a lot of women and they don't. I don't think that they do. I think the rest of the skull, the rest of the skin retract. It's only thin people. You never see a fat fella and think his ears have grown. It's only when, you know, when an old boy. And I expect to go down this road myself. So please don't anybody take offense. You know, when a man reaches a certain age and he begins to look a little bit like Dobby the house elf out of Harry Potter, that. That, I think, is. I could be wrong, but I don't think the ears have grown. I think that kind of the skin, the flesh has contracted around the skull, and it makes the ears look bigger. I think you're wrong, James. Do you? Yeah. If you look at somebody like Kurt Douglas, when he was younger, his ears went that size, and now they're massive. Are you sure his head hasn't shrunk? I'm just looking at Kurt Douglas. He's not got small ears. He's not got small ears in his pomp, you know, he's got. He's a good looking fellow, wasn't he? He won't do bad. And now I've got a picture of him. Old. Wait, there's. He's 101. Is he still with us? I think so. Even better. You've got. Good grief. You're right. His lobes are in all. Good grief. I told you. You're not kidding. Maybe he had really heavy earrings that he only wore in private. I knew a girl in Worcester many years ago. For some reason, even after her ears started going weird, she carried on wearing these earrings, and she ended up. This is before it was fashionable. And people put sellotape holders in their ears. She had little slits down the middle of her earlobes because she wore heavy earrings for so long that they. No, he's not done that, has he? Yeah. All right. Why do. Ears isn't. I don't know about noses. Kurt Douglas's nose actually looks really small. His nose looks really small. You need another example. You can't have Kirk Douglas for noses. You can only have him for ears. What was his nose like before? Tiny. Still is. Got a lovely little nose. Kirk Douglas. All right, I'll let him offer that one then. Why do men's ears and noses keep growing? Yep, you're on. Thank you. Thank you. 1239. Hurry up. Tracy needs to be answered. Zero. 345-606-0973. Israel's in Peckham, which is obviously geographically untrue. Israel. What would you like to say? Come on. You've heard that before. You've heard that before. Israel. Sure. I'll let you have that one. I'll let you have that one. Carry on. How you doing? You okay? Yeah. My answer is for the origin of astrological sign. Excellent. It actually originated in Babylonia. The oldest text, the oldest history we've got on it written, is from ancient Babylonia, but it has astrology signs as we know them today has sort of like, also been influenced and, you know, through the hellenistic periods, Mediterranean, Egyptian also as well. They've added bits and pieces on, you know, additives and. And it was always the idea that if you were born at a certain. So they broke the year down into seasons defined by a symbol. And if you were born under that season, in that season, under that symbol, it would denote certain characteristics to you. Well or not well, kind of. You're kind of on the point. What they actually did was they divided the ecliptic. So it was based on, obviously, earth going around the sun. But obviously we look at it from a cure, a geocentric perspective. Yes. So it seemed like the sun was going around down. So they divided the heavens into twelve sectors. But what the Babylonians were very interested in was they were interested very much in omens, eclipses and stuff like that. They all wanted to know the future, didn't they? All of these ancient civilizations. Yes, yes. But what they did note was that when certain planets and certain eclipses took place in particular parts of the heaven or parts of the zodiac which we know today, certain things would happen. So it would. An eclipse would happen in a particular region in the heavens. And then there will be a flood, for example, or there will be, you know, a storm or there'll be a drought. So that's where it kind of, kind of started from. And then it started to be used in regards to human, human beings. And then, as we have, have it today qualifications. I am an astrologer. Even after what? No, of course you don't go. You're not Lushall Grant. I do. You get. Russell listens to the program. Actually, I'm a bit hurt he hasn't rung in on this one. I'm surprised you did it, because you just said the whole thing is built upon a premise that the earth revolves around that the sun revolves around the earth, not the other way around. Galileo and Copernicus obviously disproved that. And yet you still do it. No, no, no, we don't. The ancients and the astrologers still today, we are well aware that we are the ones orbiting the sun. Oh, okay. So you've adapted the astrology to accommodate the reality of science? Yeah, well, sort of. Let's now get bogged down in this. I'm not going to get. Do you think. Does he doesn't deserve a radiota. Does he deserve a radio? What? You are speaking to the vice president of the oldest astrological organization, probably on planet Earth. Oh, it's not rubbish. You're not a Babylonian. No. I said no. No. Okay, all right. Okay. In modern times, in the last 200 years, I'll tell you what, mate. Israel. The president would have got a ray Lyotta. Give him a round of applause. 43 marks. In. Question or answer, Mark? Question. Carry on. On a conventional dartboard? Yes. Who and why designed where the numbers go. I know this. It was the Earl of Dartmouth. Really? Yeah. And how do you know that? It's come up before. Has it come up before? Yeah, okay, definitely the Earl of Dartmouth, you know, like the Earl of sandwich, invented the sandwich when he was playing. He was playing cards and he wanted a snack. He didn't want to leave the table, so he suggested that they bring him some meat with two slices of bread, and. And then the sandwich was born. The Earl of Dartmouth invented darts because he was a big fan of archery, and he couldn't go out arching because it was raining. So he came up with a way of doing archery indoors, and he arranged all the numbers. The Earl of Dartmouth. Okay, fine. Okay, then. Thank you very much. No, shut up, Mark. I just made that up. Complete. Good question, though. It's a brilliant question. Is it not mathematical? Is it not? You put 21 next to each other, and then everything else actually does fit a mathematical pattern. I've got a friend at work that we. We have a dartboard at work, and we sat here and we tried to figure out. That's a job, isn't it? Look, the boss isn't listening. What do you mean? You've got a dartboard at work. But now we've come up with various combinations and we can't work out for ourselves. Okay. Why can't it be down the bottom? I'll stick it on the board on one condition. Yes? You start spreading the word that darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. And then when one day, one of us hears it come back, someone says to you or me, do you know Darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth? We'll give each other a ring. And so that is how you do it. Yeah. You're on. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. There are two questions remaining with ten minutes left. Why do men's ears continue to grow forever? It would seem. And who laid out a dartboard? It was not the Earl of Dartmouth, but you get bonus points from this program. If we can successfully spread the idea that the Earl of Dartmouth invented Darts, and then if any of us hear it said back to us, because this is where it began, this is where the myth began, right here, right now. So if it ever comes back round again, then it will be a little moment of fellow feeling and community for listeners to mystery hour. The mystery hour family, you might call it, and the suggestion that Kirk Douglas was the best example of someone whose ears have grown quite remarkably. It works brilliantly. And I guess the older you are, the more they grow, because Kirk Douglas is still with us and recently celebrated his 101st birthday digging out pictures of him. I found this a few weeks ago. This is what he said about 18 months ago. A few weeks ago, we heard words spoken in Arizona that my wife Anne, who grew up in Germany, said chilled her to the bone. They could also have been spoken in 1933. These are the words. We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. It is our right as a sovereign nation to choose immigrants that we think are the likeliest to thrive and flourish here, including new screening tests for all applicants that include an ideological certification to make sure that those we are admitting to our country share our values. And Kirk Douglas wrote, these are not the american values that we fought in world war two to protect. He says, I have lived a long, good life. I will not be here to see the consequences if this evil takes root in our country. But your children and mine will be referring, of course, to Donald Trump, who at the time was a us presidential candidate. There you go. Crikey. No wonder some supporters of far right ideology find the idea of artists and writers and actors sharing their political opinions so abhorrent. 1251 is the time. Let's raise the tone. 0345, actually. You're not going to get through unless you've got an answer. I've got no room for more questions. There's already enough on the board. Luigi is in Sicily. Luigi, question or answer? How are your question? Unfortunately for you, I like a question. Luigi, what is it going to be? Okay, so I just flew in from Rome to London City airport. I was driving with my Uber driver, Md. We were listening to the show, and I have to congratulate with you, because it's a great show. I like it. Very kind. My question now, I've been traveling to England, and I lived in London for a while now, I get back and forth for business and I always ask myself one question that I never googled. Why you guys drive on the other side of the rest of the. No, no, no. You. You drive on the other side. Yeah, okay, well, okay, but why do you drive on this side of the car instead of the other side? Believe it or not, and this is true, in the olden days, before cars were even invented, everybody would have gone on the left hand side of a track, not the right hand side. And the reason was, are you left handed or right handed, Luigi? I'm right. Right. So if you were carrying a sword, where would your sword be? On the right. No, it wouldn't. The sword. The sword would go on the left. But if you wanted to have a fight with someone who was galloping towards you, you would. You would want to be on the left hand side of the road, so that as a right handed person, you unsheathe your trusty blade and tada. On guard. You're there. Do you see? Okay, so if you go back to feudal times, then it's true. It's true. But why. Why other countries then sort of went the wrong way? I don't know, actually. So we'll leave that on the board. London Bridge. London Bridge in the 17th century, or thereabouts, certainly a very long time ago, it got so busy and so crowded and so congested that that was the first thoroughfare in recorded history to have a rule where you had to go on the left to cross it because it was getting so crowded. But I don't know why the rest of the world has abandoned this rather brilliant sword based scheme. Probably has something to do with Napoleon. I bet it was Napoleon, Luigi. Napoleon was always messing up english rules. Damn. Damn Napoleon. Damn Napoleon. Let's get Luigi an answer quickly. And if it involves Napoleon, I'm having half of the applause myself. If Napoleon himself rings in, of course, we get a ray Liotta. Luigi. How fantastic. That Mister arrow has reached the shores of Sicily. Robin is in Bedford. Question or answer, Robin. It's an answer, James. Carry on, mate. It's about the. Do the fish drink? No. Well, do fish get thirsty? I thought I dismissed that in a contemptuous and condescending fashion. Well, actually not. No, it's actually a good question. Because the answer depends, James, whether. Whether it's a freshwater fish or saltwater fish. Go on. I think you can see where I'm going with this. Fish's skin is a semi permeable membrane. Oh, boy. Now, so if it's a freshwater fish. The fish is constantly losing fluid water through its skin, so it doesn't. Sorry. It's gaining water through its skin, so it doesn't need to drink. Okay. If it's a saltwater fish, the reverse happens because the salt, the sea water, is more concentrated than its tissues. It's constantly losing water to the sea, so it's having to drink all the time and then excrete the excess salt. So it's all to do with. I think you can guess what I'm saying. Osmosis. The real deal as well. It kicked in completely unprompted there. It's like programming. It's an algorithm. Magnificent. So a saltwater fish could get thirsty, and it would have to. It will do all the time. So fish has to drink all the time and then excrete the salt like we do through sweat. Through. Through fishy sweat. Fish sweat, yeah. It's a great delicacy that in North Korea, fish sweat. Yeah. But same sort of thing. This is beautiful answer to a question that I thought was stupid. So, first of all, I apologize. I can't remember the fellow's name. Whoever asked it, it was not a stupid question. My apologies. Your qualifications, Robin, are O level and s level biology. Well, I got an O level in biology, but I didn't know this. Were you good at it? S level. S level as in above an A level. Yeah. That's like for the Swats. You do an extra. No, I did it in English. I did it in English. I remember, yeah. Um, well, that's a round of applause all day long. Great work. Robin Bradley's in horn church. Bradley. Um. I don't know how to put this, mate. Do you know what I'm gonna do? You know what I'm gonna say? No, I don't. This is a charity call, okay? Because Beth says you ring in every single week. She tells you constantly. It's a rubbish question. And you keep. Keep ringing in. So can we just let him on this week out of charity? Just get it out of my sister. Exactly. Exactly. She's worried about you, mate. Well, my question is that I've been attempting to ask you for a long, long time now, is screws. You've got cross thread. Yes. You've got a flathead. You have. Okay. Now, most people use a cross thread because it's easier to get the grip with your screwdriver. It's a more efficacious screw. Yes, yes. Why do they still produce the flatheads? Well, what would you use it for in what circumstances would a flathead screw with a single groove be. Be more beneficial, preferable to. Well, I suppose in the circumstances where you haven't got a phillips screwdriver at home. Well, that's quite a good answer. That's not. That's not acceptable. Come on. That's. That's clutching at the scroll. The straws, really. What if you didn't have a screwdriver? If you owned a screwdriver, you would own one of. One of the boat. Well, you'd have one of each if you owned a screwdriver, or was that way inclined, you wouldn't just have one type of screwdriver. Just stay there a minute, Bradley. Wait there a minute, will you? Beth, this is a brilliant question. What are you playing at? I can't believe, not only have you insulted Bradley and maligned his question and called his very reputation into question, but you've also denied us a brilliant question for the last seven or eight years. How long you been ringing in for, Bradley? About. Well, I've been listening for about 15 years, but I've been ringing in for about a year on this. Practically got a gold clock. And you've mugged him off on a weekly basis. Seriously, we can have to have words about this after the program. We can't go around treating regular listeners like this with contempt. So the question is why? I think the answer is close to what I said. If you haven't got a screwdriver, you can use a flathead screw, can't. You can use a knife on it or something like that. Well, there is a theory to the answer. Go on. I'm not sure if it's correct. Let's find out. The answer is, my colleague actually told me, who's an engineer, and he said that when he's using screws in machinery, metal machinery, it's easy to wipe out the groove. If there's any dust or anything like that in it, to clean it makes sense to me, but I'm not so sure. So why did they put that on? Door handle? We got an answer. Forget everybody else. We need to get an answer for Bradley before. Here we go. John's in Epsom. John, what's going on? Hi, James. It's purely because the single line screws look better. It's. That's the simple reason. Obviously, Philips and Posi drive work much more efficiently, but they're ugly. If you get a brass door handle, they'll always be the single slot. It's just purely because they look better. That sounds good to me. Bradley, you're not going to like that, but I think it's. Oh, hang on, John, what are your qualifications? Trying to find lots of fixings for lots of different things. And I've got a builder in the family. Yeah, he's right, isn't he, Bradley? I'm right. I suppose it's about as close to an answer as I'm going to, but it is a beautiful answer, because if you're doing a bit of work, that's a personal opinion. Whether they look better or not. Exactly. And if your personal opinion is different, you can get a crosshair. But if it isn't, you get. You still want to go. It looks a lot nicer on woodwork. Go and try and find a posi drive brass screw. You won't. There you go, Bradley. That's the rest of your day sorted. Okay, well, thank you very much. It's relieved me of all that stress. Now, do you want any farewell messages for Beth? Because I'm gonna. I'm gonna sack her after this program. Yeah, just let me get through next time a lot quicker. There, you see? Round of applause for John. It's coming up to 01:00. Sheila Fogarty is here. We'll be back tomorrow morning from ten. Want to cry? Why? It's just DIY. It frightens me. Okay, I'll come around. I'll do yours if you want a few shelves. Thanks very much. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.