Two hat tricks in one football match?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien four minutes after twelve. Would you like to have a look behind the curtain? Keith, could you play the role of Toto and pull it back to reveal the eccentric old man behind pulling levers and pushing buttons and speaking into the microphone that miraculously turns his voice from a reedy whistle into a mellifluous baritone drawl. Producer just told me off, forgetting to mention that mystery hour was coming up after twelve. And I very confidently said, we don't need to, people will be here anyway. And bizarrely, it's about 50 50. So I got ten phone lines into the building without mentioning that mystery hour is coming up. Half of them are now full, so if you build it, they will come. If you tell them that you're building it, even more will come. So mystery hour is now underway. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you have a question that is in desperate, dire need of an answer, I will give you a quick heads up on how it works, but I promise that I won't detain you unduly. So it began life as a radio feature designed to fill an hour when there was an election on. Because we're not allowed to talk about politics when there's an election on. Which is why mystery happens on a Thursday, despite, as many people frequently attest, it having a rather fried a thank crunchy it's Friday feeling to it or a crackerjack type of sensation attached to it. That's why it's on Thursdays. The reason it stayed even when we weren't covering an election was because it's so much fun. So much so now that there is a board game on the way and t shirt is in the pipeline. All sorts of things. Mystery Hour is going to be basically the Kardashian of radio programming soon. Might do a makeup range, might do mystery hour stakes, mystery hour university, mystery hour casinos. It's all come. Mystery, our card game. It's all coming. It's all on the rise. I'm joking. But except about the board game and the t shirt. The t shirt's great. Six minutes after twelve is the time you ring in with a question. A who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither, or even the occasional wherefore, and somebody listening to the program knows the answer to your question and they ring in. The only real requirement is that you do know the answer to the question. We could all look stuff up. That's kind of the point of mystery hour I was reading. What was I reading the other day? It really fitted in with. With the guff that I normally spout at this point in proceedings about the difference between going into exam in the world where the Internet exists and going into an exam. Oh, it will come to me at about 1 minute after one, just as it's too late to tell you. And then by tomorrow's show I'll have forgotten again. But hey ho, we all have our crosses to bear. If you've got a question, the only requirement is that it's not boring. I appreciate that's quite subjective as a general rule. Just ask yourself, will anyone else be interested in the answer to this question? If you genuinely think the answer is yes, then give it a whirl. Give us a ring. And if you're going to ring in with an answer then just please observe the simple requirement that you're not allowed to look stuff up. It operates on. Trust this. Okay, seven minutes after twelve is the time. I have some prizes. At the moment they are sonic prizes only. But shortly we will have concrete prizes. Not made of concrete, but real solid prizes like games and t shirts and stuff. As opposed to a round of applause which is a recording and a Ray Liotta. I'm gonna start saying this carefully. Rayleigh Ota. It's not. It's not an otter from Essex. It's the Hollywood superstar Rayleigh Ota who recorded a special message for people that scale the dizziest heights of mystery hour answers. And hopefully you'll get to witness that today. But you don't know. Well, as Keith has just reminded me, there is a third mystery hour sound effect. Although I don't think we. Did we hear it last year at all? Have we heard it since you took the job? Yes, he did once fire it accidentally in the news. I'm not sure that counts. Remind me to tell you the story about the basically alarm one day in the very, very early days of this program. That was very special. But we do reserve a quick snatch of the Hallelujah chorus for people that deploy a word that at one point in the history of mystery art was kind of a catch all answer that I would deploy with any scientific question that I didn't know the answer to. I'll give you a clue. Semi permeable membranes. Yeah. There you go. Eight after twelve. Should we crack on? I think we should. Matthew is in Chester. Matthew, question or answer? Hello, James. Belated happy birthday to you. Could we stop that now, please? I mean, it's very polite and charming of you, but as soon as one person does a little bit of rubric or furniture, then every caller feels compelled to do the same and we lose so much time that could be dedicated to questions and answers. So, thank you. Matthew. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So, I was watching a YouTube video by a guy called Jay Foreman, who's very, very good, and he was talking about the 32 London boroughs, and he mentioned something sort of in passing, which struck me as really interesting, which is the City of London, which a cursory glance at Google tells me is just short of three square kilometres. It has its own lord mayor, it has its own taxes and it has its own police force. And I'm just wondering why this is so. And do these actually have any legitimate power or is it just purely ceremonial? I think the lord Mayor of the City of London is mostly ceremonial. Okay. I mean, if I've understood your question correctly, the short answer would be because that was their first. So the best way to understand the City of London is the gates, is the walls that are now mostly disappeared. But if you think of Ludgate, it was a closable. I just said we weren't going to mention Donald Trump again. But they did build a wall, you see, they built a wall around what is now the City of London, which is in the east. It's the financial sector, chiefly, as you know. And that was London. That was the original London. That's why the Tower of London is down in that neck of the woods. So that was the. The safe area, if you like. And the citizens in the city would be protected from the Badlands. They would lock the gates at night, so they had their own police. And then as London spread and the walls became redundant and they introduced new police forces or new institutions, the old ones just stayed. No, that's not a very enthusia. You want more? No, that's very informative. Thank you very much. Well, it was because it was there first, but you don't sound convinced. And Ava's shaking her head, and Keith shaking his head and will not been here long enough to shake his head at me yet. Oh, my God. He just shook his head. Having listened to you for a number of years, James, I trust your authority implicitly. Oh, lord. Now we're definitely not doing it. Matthew, I shall put it on the list for you. Why does the City of London have its own institutions? I think is probably the best way of phrasing the question. Question 0345-6060 it doesn't have its own taxes, I don't think. Does it? It just has. It just has its own delineations. I'll take a round of applause, actually, Keith, because I haven't had many yet this year. No, no, no. A whole one, please. Gareth in Birmingham. Gareth, question or answer? It's a question. So I suppose you can't back. If you've received a Ray Liotta in the past, you can't get a t shirt. You can't bring your Ray Liotta back to the bank and swap it for a t shirt or a board game. No, obviously not. But you can. You can aspire to rescale the dizzy heights of a Ray Liotta, Gary. That would be my advice to you. Okay. I will. I will aspire. Keep my eyes set. Good. Firmly on. On that. My question is when. Obviously, we've seen quite a lot of presidential pardons this week. Yes. My question is, when someone has committed a crime that would deem them to be a threat to society, such as weapons charges, or they've committed a murder and they get pardoned, what happens? Are they just. You're free to go and mind how you go on your way, or are they sort of kept track of, do they have to go through certain. Hang on. So if you're pardoned for a crime you've already committed. Yes. And like, your. Maybe your sentence has been commuted. Yes. What happened if you. If you are. If you're. If what you've been convicted of would deem you to be a threat to society? I don't know that it makes any difference. It's a good question. I don't know. Can you. I mean, so what you're essentially asking is, can you pardon murderers? Can presidents pardon murderers or sex offenders? They can be sex offenders, of course. But whether they can pardon sex offenders is a different question. And how is the threat they pose managed after they. You're only allowed one question. Okay, well, that's. Well, okay, so I don't know. I mean, someone will already know the answer to that. Someone listening, and they'll be able to name. So usually we think of either financial crimes, which Steve Bannon was pardoned for, or. And so was Conrad Black. I think Lil Wayne had weapons charges. Who did? Lil Wayne. He did. Yeah. No, he did, didn't he? The rap artiste Lil Wayne. So possession, weapons charges, so deemed to be a threat. It's a good question. It might be too complicated, but we'll find out. I mean, yeah, you'd think that weapons charges would constitute. You wouldn't get probation. That's, in a way, what you're asking is, can you be pardoned for a crime when you wouldn't actually get probation? But we're mixing up America and british legal systems there. Yeah. I mean, someone who knows the answer will probably get the question that I'm trying to. That's it. That's. That's the spirit of mystery. Gareth, right there. That's exactly. We love it so much as Gareth perfectly understands, but, like me, can't quite articulate. Someone who understands the question will be able to answer it in a way that makes the question make more sense than it currently perhaps does. Happy, happy, happy days. Naj is in Peckham. Naj. Question or answer? Hi there. There's a question. Yes. The question is, what happens inside a wine bottle that makes certain wines, when they're mature, become vintage and high quality after years, yet others only peak after four or five years and don't never get any better. Do you get it? I think I get it. I mean, are you asking what makes a wine vintage as opposed to just old? Well, some wines will. Will ruin. Well, after five years. Yes. Or six years or ten years, for example. Others will get better. So what. Okay. Okay. So what's the difference between wines that get better with age and wines that don't? Yeah, so we leave. We're going to leave the work. We'll leave the word vintage out of it, because that complicates the question a bit. Okay. Okay. Yeah. No, I love that. So wines that get better with age versus wines that's generally don't. Yep. Lovely. Because they're bottled the same and they're all made of grapes. Nag. I think we can agree on that. So something's going on in that bottle and we want to know what it is. Zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer the question about the City of London, the presidential pardons or the bottles of wine. LBC mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Oh, 90 minutes after talking is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Questions that deserve answers or that need answers. Could you just explain the special status of the City of London with a capital c? Can the president of the United States pardon anyone? And if they still, or were to be perceived as posing a threat to the population, how does that work? And what's the difference between a vintage wine and not a vintage wine? Why do some wines improve in the bottle while other wines don't? It's pretty much that simple. It's going to be a chemical explanation and Heather in Wiltshire has made a point from earlier in the program that I think I should amplify, not least because it's a little bit ridiculous of me to claim unique status in the british media. She says, you really should give Channel four news more credit. BBC does a good job of impartiality, and while all the other or most other news outlets are sycophantic and right wing. But Channel four has always been fair and Jon Snow is a national treasure. I absolutely agree. As is Matt Fry. As is. As is Christian and Guru Murphy. As is Alex, all Channel four news. You're absolutely right. He's a bastion of balance, impartiality and proper journalism, and it's not cowed in the way that the BBC is, so I'm glad we've cleared that up. Chris is in Worcester, scene of the battle of Naseby, as I was referring to just a moment ago. Chris, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Chris. Well, I'm actually up in Tiverdale for lockdown, so I cannot be an exiled, as it were, up into the north of the county. Never mind it's about the wine, about why some improve and some decline over year. It's mainly due to the way it's stored and also how it's actually the actual cork seal is made. No, that can be right. Well, you've got. Oxidization can happen if the actual cork isn't too tight in the bottle. And then if I were to take three consecutive vintages, as I understand it, the tasting notes, you can tell that I'm a horny handed son of the soil. During conversations like this, you could have three consecutive vintages from the same vineyard, of which one would really improve with age and two wouldn't. Can't you? Or not? Or have I made that up? You could do again, it's atmospheric, as kind of the weather conditions of the grapes, as well. When they're growing. Yes. So it's not. I don't think that wines improve in the bottle because of the way that they're bottled. Otherwise we'd bottle them in a way that ensures all wines improve in the bottle, wouldn't we? You could do. Yeah. I don't know that either of us are qualified to answer this question. Chris, what did you think, qualifications wise, you were bringing to the bar? Well, I'm a kind of part time alcoholic. We shouldn't joke. We shouldn't joke about such things. But you have a deep and abiding interest in matters alcohol related. But, I mean, it's a simple question. Why do some wines improve in the bottle while other wines don't, with a broad acceptance that they are bottled and harvested in the same way? We don't know, do we? I was going to use the word osmosis as well. You're not getting one for that. That's a very strong play, but it's definitely not. Oh. Oh, no. Because it's liquids and there's no liquids passing between. Semi permeable. I should. Is the grape shot still open in town? Do you know, unfortunately, I spent yourself a bit on the same subject about the pub quiz, about the border. You do like. Yes, that's right. You do like your booze, don't you? Yeah. I've not been. Well, I've been up here since March, so I've not really been able to get back down. You haven't raised a pint? Well, like you, I miss the. Someone said something clever to me the other day, I think you've been very, very fond of. Booze is great, but remember, it's not reciprocated. That was a very good way of putting it, actually. All things in moderation, Chris. Thank you. Jake's in Bracknell. Jake, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. So, you know, in a game of football, when a player gets a hat trick, they get given the match ball at the end as like a tradition. Yeah. What I want to know is what happens if more than one player scores a hat trick? Who gets the match ball at the end of the game? I can't recall it ever happening. And I kind of follow football religiously. It must have happened in a kind of 15 nil victory in an FA cup game in the midst of time. I presume it goes whoever got the first hat trick. Yeah, that would make sense. I mean, I know there's more than one ball in the game, obviously. It's kind of symbolic, the match ball, isn't it? Yeah. I mean, if there is a hard and fast answer, we will find it. But I also imagine that it has the Whatchama call it, the conversations between the players, you know? So if one of the hat trick scorers was a young lad on his debut, he'd probably get the ball. Even if he wasn't the first hat trick. I'd be surprised if it's cast in stone. Jake. No, but the question is on the board, if more than one player scores a hat trick in a game of football, who gets the match ball? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need 24 minutes after twelve is the time, and Tim is in Colchester. I think I know why you're here. Are you here to answer a question about wine? Very good, James. Very impressive. I have done this before, Timothy, as you may have noticed. Carry on. Yes. So the question about why do some wines improve in bottle, and why do some wines not improve in bottle? There are a number of different factors. The main one that we would be most familiar with is the actual grape variety itself. Some grape varieties have a greater affinity to age than others. Most red grape varieties tend to age well, but again, there is difference between them. Generally speaking, Cabernet sauvignon, for example, has a greater aging potential than pinot noir might have in white wine. Chardonnay has a greater aging potential, particularly than sauvignon blanc. Sauvignon blanc, generally speaking, doesn't age very well unless it's blended with some other varieties. So it's mainly the grape variety, just that you start out with. Then you do have things like vintage variation, which you were mentioning to the caller before. So if you do have a particularly good year where the grapes are particularly ripe, and you have really sort of ripe tannins, if you're talking about red wines, if you have particularly ripe tannins that will help the wine, help preserve the wine during it aging journey, then that will help as well. So, I mean, that's a definitive answer. I think I'd just like to learn a little bit more while I've got the benefit of your brains on the line. So the vineyard sets out to make a wine that will be a vintage, a wine that will be. Well, the term vintage just refers to the year, but you know what I mean. So the vineyard decides whether it's making a wine to be drunk, more or less as soon as it's ready, or whether it's making a wine to be laid down. Yes, a lot of it is around the. What we look at is yield, the amount of grapes that you actually get out of the vineyard. We tend to refer to it in hectolitres per hectare. And generally speaking, the higher the hectolitres per hectare, if you go to places like Australia, if you go to region like Riverland, which is really sort of like wine mass production central, you've got. You've got thousands of miles of vineyards, also very much temperature controlled and moisture controlled and all that sort of thing. And you've got what you might call industrial winemaking. And it's perfectly good stuff, it's perfectly good juice, but it's meant to be drunk straight away. You've got high yielding vineyards and it's just making nice grog just to sort of crack open on a Wednesday afternoon sort of type of thing. Whereas if you say, compared that to one of the top vineyards in Bordeaux, where they really control the yield and they really think about what characteristics the soil and the climate and that sort of thing are going to bring to it, they're very much aimed at making a more premium product. And the constitution, or the chemical constitution of the wine is what determines how it responds to being laid down. Well, I mean, wine is wine. I mean, there's the same sort of chemical constituent, but the actual quality depends on things like the yield and things like the vintage conditions that you get in any one particular year. Qualifications? I'm a certified wine educator. I run wine spirit education trust courses. Fantastic. Round of applause for Tim. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. We're ticking them off, actually. That's strong. I like that. Getting one in early, it means I've got. Actually got more phone lines free. Actually, I need to do a correction. Um. Naseby's not in Worcester. Sorry? The battle of Worcester happened in Worcester. Charles hid up a tree, didn't he? Nazby's in Northamptonshire. Keith, you've got to start picking me up on this stuff. Seriously. I'm sending out fake news about the civil war. It's just. It's outrageous. You're right. Keith raises a valid point. It's not what you would describe as breaking news, but nonetheless, it's important to get these things right. So we've got plenty of room for more questions. Now, if you're quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 we still haven't answered the question about the city of London, presidential pardons or hat tricks? Hat trick. Balls. But we've got some on the way. And we need. At 29 minutes after twelve, we need some more. Hit the numbers now. You will get through. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you've got a question. Jeff's in hook. Jeff, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. I was going to attempt to give an answer. Presidential pardons. He's free to pardon anyone he wants. So the best example is Lil Wayne, convicted on the weapons charge. If you read the news, he's already out of jail. Yeah. I think the difference would be a full pardon versus commuting your sentence, meaning full pardon, wipes it away and you have no history of being a convicted felon. Commuting it means you're let free. It's still on your record, but they've let you out early. So in the context of what and in most states, if you're convicted felon, that prevents you from getting stuff like firearms, certain jobs. Right. So even though you're free, you still have a penalty against you for the rest of your life. Oh, that's brilliant. Qualifications? Me personally. None in the legal field. But my father was the state prosecutor attorney for the state of Texas. Of course he was. I love that. That's a really strong qualification. If only. If only you'd followed him into the same line of work, you might have got yourself a Ray Liotta. Jeff. As it is, you'll have to make two with a round of applause. Great stuff. 12:30 is the time. Thomas Watts is here with your headline mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You're listening to mystery air, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. We should continue. Aston is in Rosendale, in Lancashire. Aston. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. So it's just with the sea shanty songs. I'll over TikTok in a minute. I just want to know what a Wellerman is and what they do. Oh, good. I know the answer to this, but do we know why sea shanty songs have achieved such a sort of high profile lately? Because I looked it up oddly a couple of weeks ago as a direct result of seeing the kind of stuff you're referring to. But I haven't worked out why it's suddenly gone so viral and popular. Do we know? No. I think the lady just started singing and had a nice voice and it was. It all started from there. For people who do not know what Aston and I are talking about. Here you go. The winds blew up her bird up down below my billy boys blow soon may the well man come to bring us sugar and tea and rum one day when the tongue in we'll take our lead and go, go. I know this isn't why you rang in. Has he gone? We've lost Aston. So I have a theory on why they've suddenly become so popular during lockdown. I think it's because you can do them on Zoom. Do you see what I mean? You can do. I mean, I've seen one fella do it on his own. He does all the different voices and he edits it. He edits it together like that. But he. I think it's because you can do it on Zoom. It's quite a collaborative community project. Do you think that could be it, Aston? The reason it's become so popular is because you can do it on Zoom. Yeah. Well, I've just seen that a lot of people are just joining in and duetting with a lad and because they're stuck at home and you can do it on a screen. And so it actually lends itself to lockdown. The answer, oddly, has nothing to do with Cornwall and everything to do in New Zealand and a company called the Weller Brothers, who would, essentially, they were in charge of delivering supplies to people working on shore, chopping up whales with an h in New Zealand. And so they would be the one. They would be the. It would be on a ship owned by the Weller brothers is where the supplies would come in the rum and the tobacco and the vittles and what have you. And that is why they're waiting for and looking forward to the Wellerman arrival. So it's not a name as in, like a surname within a miller named surname. Miller. Like a Wellerman's a Wellerman. It's because of the company they work for. It's a man that works for Weller. Right, yeah. Not the hair product company? No. The former lead singer of the jam either. That's the answer. It's a good answer, that, isn't it? That's a nice one. When you got that little note, if you'd rhoned it six months from now, I'd have forgotten. So, well done. Round of applause for me. Thank you, Kate. Thanks, Aston, mate. Take care. It's a great sound, but it touches. I listen to quite a lot of irish folks music and I do think there are some. And the drums are supposed to remind you of the womb, aren't they? I was listening to a great piece about bass and dance music and the thumping bass and then there's that. The dim drums throbbing in the hills, half heard. I think some music appeals to you on an almost primal level. It gets into your lizard brain and that fits into that category. For me, at least. Perry is in. Enfield Perry. Question or answer? Hi, good afternoon, James. Yes, I've got a question. So, yesterday was the inauguration. As we all know, a president may serve two four year terms, correct? Well, let's say a couple of years rolls by and for whatever reason, Joe Biden, I don't know, it might be health reasons or personal reasons, can't fulfill his obligation and serve the remaining two years. And Vice President Harris takes over for the remaining two years. Can she then go on and serve another two terms, win two elections and two terms serving ten years? Or does that first two year subterm count as a first term and she can only do one more, making it six? So could she serve six or eight or ten? Oh, that's a great. That's a lovely question, actually. And I should admit, a really easy answer. I don't know myself. Despite. It should be easy to answer. Despite my a level in american politics that was taken at 31 years ago. Oh, my God, I'm old. 31 years ago. This should be really straightforward and there should be an example. We should be able to think of someone who provides the answer either by losing an election or winning. The only one I can think of is Roosevelt. Didn't he serve more than two? I think he might serve three terms, but I don't know if one of those was half a turn or whether that was special because of the war or something like that. Exactly. I do not know. I love that question. And you've done something else, Perry, actually, by accident, with your name and the fact that it begins with pictures, you've reminded me of something I discovered yesterday that has shaken my world to its very foundations. What? P president or something like that? No, no, no. It involves Hong Kong. Phooey. Number one super guy. And I shall keep this one hanging to build tension. And hopefully, if Keith's on the ball, I'll remember before the end of the program to tell you why my world was shaken to its very core yesterday when I talked about the mild mannered janitor in Hong Kong, Phui, who, having passed through the transformative filing cabinet, emerges at the bottom as the number one super guy and it has genuinely shaken the foundations of my very existence. I will henceforth question everything. 1240 is the time. Daniel's in Swindon. Daniel, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So me and my dad reserved this question for your show. So it's quite special. Pressure's on. Yeah. So I was working in Greenwich pre Christmas and I was thinking, so the Greenwich time meridian, due to tectonic plate movement, would that say, say, in 200 years, would the actual line on the ground be 10 meters either way due to, obviously, the movement in the plates? Yeah, okay. Yeah, I think. Yeah. So you've got a meridian which is a circumference of the globe. Yeah. And would shifts in tectonic plates move the meridian? Yeah. So would we have to move the actual line on the ground, say, 10 meters either way, in, say, 200 years? Yeah, I like it. I mean, it is one of those questions, no offense to you or your dad or me, because I now also find it really interesting. The answer may make us all feel stupid. So do you see what I mean? The answer may make the question look daft, but as it stands, I quite like that. Do shifts in tectonic plates have any impact at all upon the Greenwich meridian? That's the one. Top man. Thank you. And thank you for saving it from mystery hour as well. A little bit of father son bonding that I'm proud to have played a part in. 1241 is the time Danny's in Wimbledon. Danny, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Danny. It's an answer to the hat trick question. The short answer is, anyone who scores a hat trick in the game gets to take on my match ball. A match ball? Yes, a match ball. Because obviously these days, so many balls are used in the game that they both get to take one home. I think back in the day, when there was only one ball being used, it would be either the player on the winning team or the player who scored the most recent hat trick to the final whistle. Okay, well, that makes sense. Oh, the most recent to the final whistle. Not the first. Yeah. Rather than the first one. Yeah, apparently. So. That was. That's according to my dad, who is, or at least was, a semi professional referee. And I remember asking him at a time when two different hat tricks were scored in a game, what would happen? And he gave me a very long, convoluted answer that basically boiled down to that. That'll do. Qualifications. Football geek. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Danny. Thanks, Ray. Thank you. Good work. I like that. And, I mean, even at kiddie, which is not the best funded football club in the country, there are multiple balls available on match day. Because quite often, this is one of the things I love about non league football. Quite often, the ball gets hoofed over the stand. So when I was a kid, there'd be lads outside hoping for a ball to come loading over the stand. They could grab it and run home in Lowestoft. Hello, Matthew. Question or answer? It's a bit of an odd one. Since we're back in lockdown, dreams have started to become quite weird again. Tell me about it. Yeah. I dreamt that Ian Rankin, the thriller writer, one of my favorite writers, I dreamt that he showed me a secret passage from a masonic temple on the Royal Mile in Edinburgh that led to the top of Arthur's seat. And what was the result? That was it. I told him I told him about it on Twitter. He was very polite on, well, it leads me to quite an interesting question. So I had a dream a couple of nights ago. My wife was in a very large shopping mall. It was like a palace, and it went into different rooms and all sorts of things. And she was walking along with an ex fiance from many years ago. Study on. All right, I'm a radio host, not a therapist. And anyway, she. I just wondered, really, if it's possible to re enter a dream once you've already woken up from it. Well, that's a really easy question to answer. Okay. Because I have. Wow. Okay. So, I mean, it depends, I presume, on how deep your sleep was, how quickly you woke up. But I have thought, you know, very often, actually, I've thought, oh, I'll just see if I can go back to that dream and you sort of nod off and you start conjuring it up in your imagination and you can. So I can give myself a round of applause for that. But. But because I did. I mean, that's the only qualification you need. But it doesn't mean everybody can. It doesn't mean you can. Some people don't even have visual imagination. Some people, I discovered relatively recently, don't have an inner voice. So they don't. Literally don't have an inner monologue. I mean, you might be one of them, so I shouldn't express it with such shocking. I've got quite a good imagination, but I just wonder what the qualifications were, falling back to sleep and re entering that. Just. Just try. That's what I did, you know, so just sort of drift back off again. And then you think, I mean, you may not be able to prove it's the same dream or it's not exactly a Christopher Nolan film or something like that, but it certainly went. Then you wake up again and you think, oh, yeah, that worked. So I'm going to take a round of applause for that. Thank you. James. How's the, um. How's the fishing going down in Lowestoft? Don't ask me that. I'm with you. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 48 is the time we've had a bit of a glitch. We've got one of those things where one of the answers given has caused such a flurry of complaint and stewards inquiries that our switchboard has just broken. So I'm going to have to take the call that is the stewards inquiry with regard to the match ball in the hat trick question. And then you're gonna have to stop ringing me and then we'll be able to get back to mystery hour proper. In the meantime, I'll give you some breaking news to keep you occupied that Glastonbury has been cancelled for this year. There will be no Glastonbury festival. 1249 is the time. Peter is in Edenbridge. Peter, question or answer? It's the answer to the hat trick one, I'm afraid. Carry on, Stewart. Is. Yeah. To challenge the previous caller, where the hat trick is scored by two players of the same team. They actually decide between them whoever takes the match ball. And my, I guess, qualification for that is. I recall it happening ten years ago, approximately, in a Premier League game. Arsenal beat Southampton six one, and hat tricks were scored by Jermaine Pennant and Robert Pirez. And in his post match interview, Jermaine Pennant, who was young footballer, said that he basically went up to Perez and said, I scored the hat trick first. I'm having the match ball. And that was accepted. So it was a negotiation. It wasn't because he scored it first, it was because Perez agreed it was. Yeah. It was the negotiation between them. Love it. That'll do nicely. And that is that. Just let me have a quick chat with the crack team of operatives that work behind the scenes to keep this show so powerful and impressive. Does that tally with what everyone else is whining about? Yeah. All right, you're on. Round of applause for Peter. Thanks very much. Whining with a very affectionate flavor. I'm glad we've cleared that. It makes sense, actually, doesn't it? What if two team. What if. Well, the winner gets the match ball, obviously. What if it's a draw? What if it's six? All right, sorry. The producer just literally told me off and I replied to her as if you could hear her. That's not that. Can we not make a habit of this? This is messing with people's minds. We have literally turned into a Christopher Nolan film. Now Barry's in Bristol. Barry, raise the tone. Raise the tone, would you, Barry? It's all going a bit. It's all going a bit frayed around the edges. Question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. So my question is, when you see a flock of starlings, which is known as a murmuration, it is. You see them turning in multiple different directions. They all seem to do it simultaneously. It's a very impressive thing to watch. I'd like to know which bird they follow or how do they know when to turn, you know, what is the thing that makes it all move in a different direction at the same time? That's a lovely. I mean, basically, how do murmurations work? Yes, yes. There was a lovely documentary about this just the other day about. But I've forgotten. I don't know if it addressed the question you asked. The problem with murmurations. I don't know if you find this, Barry. I was settling down, I was enjoying. I like a nature documentary and I was settling down to watch it and I was really enjoying it. And I think they were roosting on an abandoned pier or something like that. And what was quite interesting was that. But when they'd been there for a while, they stopped doing the murmuration before they roosted. And the presenter suggested that it was because the murmuration, the swooping and swerving around is to check whether there's any predators around before they settle down. And once they've been in the same place for a while, they reach a state of confidence that there aren't any predators around. So they don't do the murmuration before bedtime. My mum watched that documentary and she called me in to watch it. There you go. So yeah, I made some joke about them all standing on a pier, but that was it, wasn't it? And. But I got so hypnotized by the murmurations that I stopped paying much attention to the commentary. It's like watching a blooming pocket watch being swung in front of your face. So the answer might have been contained within that program but you came in too late and I was too distracted. Yep, indeed. Have you asked your mum? She's in the next room, just in the radio, so she's gonna be shocked to hear me blow. I know the answer. Barry. Barry, come in here. I know the answer to this question, you silly boy. Let's try and find out. How do murmurations work then? Because, you know, it is. It's an astonishing thing to witness but the idea that all the birds are moving in unison is. Is breathtaking. Barry, great work. Stefan's in Pembrokeshire. Stefan, question or answer? Sir James. Carry on. So it's to your plate tectonics question whether the Greenwich meridian would move? Yes, it does move. Everything moves. The UK is moving at about three 4 year towards the east. Okay. Being pulled apart from America along the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. But in say 200 years, which I think was what your caller said, it would only move about 60 cm. So it's not a negligible amount, is it? 60 cm? No, it's not, but it's not going to bother most people. The only issue would be things like GPS, which have to know very accurately on a point on the earth where they are. But GPS systems actually already account for that. There's little receivers and things all over the world which are accounting for the plate tectonic motion, so that GPS systems still work every year. And, I mean, we can see it in Greenwich and stuff like that. So does that become inaccurate at some point? I suppose so. But if you're talking about things like time zones, it's not really much of an issue because time zones are done by country borders and things anyway, which 60 cm isn't much of a problem. The only issue would be where you need really, really accurate navigation, something like a GPS system. But they already have technology in place to account for that. Qualifications. I'm a geology teacher. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Stefan. Thank you. No, thank you. Great work. Paul's in Nottingham. Paul, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on the question, James. And you do know the answer to this about whether if a vice president becomes president in a current term. Yes. Can he or she, in this case, run for president two more times? Of course, we very nearly did have this precedent. We had it, of course, in November 1963, John F. Kennedy was assassinated. Lyndon Johnson became president. He ran for reelection. ₩64, a landslide. Yes. And he very nearly ran for reelection again in 16. Chose not to, didn't he, in the end. And chose not to. So the fact that he could have done means that you can. I think there's another element to this answer. Do you know what it is? I don't. Half time. How long had JFK been. Been president when he was assassinated? He'd been elected in 1960, inaugurated in January 61, and he was assassinated in November 63. So less than two years. But if, for example, Joe Biden today resigned as president and Kamala Harris was inaugurated, she would be president now until the next inauguration in January 25. But I think that with the question in a way boils down to, does it count as a term if you've taken over as vice president? And I think it only counts as a term if you took over before half time. Ah, I think. Or does that. Does that put a hole in our theory? Well, that that would involve, and I haven't had time to do it. Getting out, reading the US constitution, I wasn't aware the constitution draw a distinction, drew a distinction between when I got a feeling that it does, and some of the chatter on social media suggests that it does. As well, let me see if I can find. Because we're quite short of time, so I don't want to throw it back open again. You've got yourself a round of applause. Because it is possible to do it. We know that it's possible to do it because Lyndon b Johnson contemplated it in 68. But whether or not he would have been able to do that if he'd taken over from JFK sooner is we're just going to have to leave it hanging. Qualifications, Paul? Oh, I studied american politics 30 years ago. So did I. I didn't know the answer to this one until you reminded me, actually. Round of applause for Paul. Great work. Beverley's in Somerset. Beverley. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Murmurations. Murmur. It's a lovely word, isn't it? It's a great word. And I live in Somerset, where there are murmurations all over the place. Yes. And each starling uses, I think it's either five or seven starlings around it to determine where they move. Right. So they move in little clumps that then makes the whole. So it's like each. Each clump then forms around it. Is that not a bit chicken and egg? Well, that's how you asked how they move, so that's how they move. Yeah. But who starts it? Is there like a mothership, a queen? Starling? Well, there's probably, like a massive. It becomes a mass thing, I would imagine, because they come back to a certain place to root. So there's probably a mass intelligence of where they're going, but they move independently. Each one only identifies or gets information. That makes sense, doesn't it? Of course that makes sense. And how does it start? Well, there'd be one that moves. I mean, literally, there'll be one that responds to an external stimulus and then that goes down like a domino effect and all the rest of them end up moving in sync. Synchronicity was the word I wanted, wasn't it? Yes. I can't remember. It's five or seven, but it's an odd number. It's definitely five or seven round qualifications. I read it on Google because I used it as an example in a talk I gave. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Beverly. Supervision. Last one. Tom's in Cambridge. Question or answer? Hello. I've got an answer. Hopefully, I might be able to help out with your presidency. Question. 30 seconds, Philly Booth. So it's to do with the wording of an amendment. I think it's the 24th or 25th amendment in the constitution, but that's me being very pedantic, Carrie. It could be something to do with the wording in being elected and holding the position of office. So if Kamara Harris holds the position of president for longer than two years, then she's only limited to one extra term. If she comes in less than two years, she can then be elected twice. It has to do with the wording in that. You're right. 22 a. Something to do with Truman. And something do with Truman as well, because when Roosevelt died, Truman came in and they changed it because. Because of that 22nd amendment added in 1947. Ah, the a levels are the a. It's coming back now with a vengeance. There we go. Qualifications. I did history at university. Round of applause. Thank you. I'll tell you the Hong Kong phooey thing tomorrow. That's it from me for another day. You're listening to. But I tell you now, if you are my age or generation, it is going to rock the foundations of your existence. My Hong Kong phooey based discovery. And we have speak to Sadiq with the mayor of London at the top of tomorrow's show. So if you want to call in and ask him anything you want, anything at all, absolutely anything, then you know what to do. Meanwhile, here is Sheila Fogarty. Well, I do a great impersonation of rosemary. The telephone is from Hong Kong. Phooey. Well, go on. No, just one for the Christmas party. If we ever have them again, I'll save it. Yeah, I'll save it for the very, very drunken Christmas party that we will eventually have. Thanks, James. Have a good afternoon and have lots this afternoon on the flooding affecting many parts of, of the north of England and Wales. The River Mersey, Didsbury, northenden, south of Manchester city centre, as well as the River Bollin at Heatley, Little Bollington on the river deit farmed in Cheshire, Wales. Affected 33 flood warnings in Wales. So I'll bring you plenty of updates on that. And I also think, and this is what I'm going to focus on as well this afternoon. I think it's time we got real about what to expect this year when it comes to COVID and getting anywhere, like back to normal and Christmas parties and me impersonating the receptionist from Hong Kong. Phooey. There's a hopeful track based around vaccinations, but there's a track of despair too. So let's. Let's do it together. Let's get real.