Can being cold, give you a cold?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve and mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial, or indeed upon this mortal coil. I mean, this is, this is. This is heady stuff. If you have a question bubbling away in the back of your brain, or perhaps even the front, in fact, this week we'll include the middle. Then give me a ring on the usual number zero 345-606-0973 ask me the question, endure my often clumsy attempts to answer it myself in pursuit of some faux impression of omniscience, and then park yourself for a few minutes and wait for someone who actually does know the answer to ring in and tell you what it is. There is no limit on what you can ask, if you see what I mean. It can be silly or serious, it could be something that you would probably need a PhD in applied mathematics to answer, or it can be something that you might be able to answer because you read it in the Beano last week. The point is that we are here to shine light into dark corners. And of course, if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then you. Well, you don't have to ring in, but I'll be very upset if you don't. Just on a sort of personal, let alone a professional level. Five after twelve. Should we crack straight on this week rather than. I mean, I did such an interminable monologue at the beginning of program today because there was so much important business to observe. You're not allowed to look anything up. Obviously. I should say that if you're thinking of answering a question, some of the questions that pop through perhaps, are Google able, if that's a word. But the point of this feature is to sort of remember the days when knowledge mattered, when you had to actually know stuff. And it's. I do this every week, but the. The gulf between what our children do today and what we did when we were their age is almost unnavigable, isn't it? When you think about it, even the six wives of Henry VIII, if you didn't know it off by heart, what could you do? You'd have to ask someone or find a book that it was in, literally. Younger listeners are going to be going, what? You don't need to fight a book. There's six wives. You just know it off by heart or piece, you know, 3.1,415,927. Is it thereabouts, yeah. Why do you need to know? There's a button on your calculator if you're younger? Six after twelve. So that's the only rule. I used to have a ban on motoring related questions and it's still half a ban. But as I get older, I find some of my youthful prejudices falling away, like so much flaky old skin. Kevin's in Chelsea. Kevin, question or answer? Question, please carry on. What is the longest after a football match has extra time? So what is the longest duration an extra time has lasted for? You mean injury time, I think, yeah. No, no, extra time is a finite period. It's two more halves of 15 minutes each, upon which you could also have more injury time added. But. You mean at the end of the 90 minutes or the 120 minutes, what's the longest period of injury time? Yeah, sorry. No, that's all right. It's just semantics. As what's his name would say. Who was it? Alok Sharma, earlier this week when he was trying to pretend that Australia style arrangements meant something other than no deal and the mask briefly slipped. I like that. Have you got any ideas yourself? Have you got any contenders? I mean, I don't really know. I mean, technically, clearly, I don't know much about football, as you could tell. No, but that's all right. I thought we'd glossed over that quite effectively and now you're coughing to it. Kevin, I'd covered your back on that, mate, and now you've gone and blown it. Yeah, but I still think it's quite an embarrassing mistake, even though you may excuse it. Yes, it is quite an. It is quite. But still, injury time, presumably. I mean, there must be a limit if. I mean, it can't be infinite. It's tempting to think that it's infinite because you could have an infinite amount of time where play had been stopped. But, for example, you know, you probably wouldn't put it beyond floodlights coming on or how 20 minutes delay because of something awful had happened. I don't know. We'll find out. What's the longest period of injury time in professional football's recorded history? Zero. 345-606-0973 Gav is in Malmesbury in Wiltshire. Gav. Question or answer? Hi, James. Hello. It's the question. Carry on. I'm normally in Acton. Is Gav your mate? Acton one play. THTC. Gav. Yeah. Hey, mate. How's business? So, okay. The question was, I'm thinking about packing it all in and living in a camper next year. Are you really? Yeah, very tempted. Blimey, very tempted. Now, I'm not planning on doing anything illegal, but if you're living in a camper and you're parked up on the side of the road and the engine's not on, do the police need a search warrant to come in or obviously, if you're being pulled over, they can just search your car. If they knocked on the door and said they want to come in, it might be one for Daniel Barnett's legal hour. Gav, rather than. Rather than my mystery out, but it's a very specific inquiry. So you're parked legally, are you? So you're parked legally, but you're in an area where you're not allowed to sleep because you could park a camper van in some places but you wouldn't be able to overnight there. So are you. Are you in a place where you are allowed to overnight because they might want to check that you're not overnighting? Yeah. So say you're in a place that you. Yes. Yes. That you are allowed to overnight. Okay. And they just rock up, knock on the door and say, we believe that you're doing something illegal, we're going to search because it's a vehicle but it's still a home. They'd can't do that in your house. So you want to know whether they can do it in a mobile home? I mean, in your house? If they've got a warrant, they can come and I mean, yeah, they'd need a warrant if they want to come. Everybody listening, Gav, is wondering what the hell you're going to be getting up to on your camper van. It's not me, but I might have friends that are staying with me and doing naughty things. So are you safe from spot checks on your home? If your home has wheels, yeah. Yeah. Okay, well, we need to have a catch up. Obviously there's a lot going on in your world. Take it easy, mate. All right? You too. Thanks, mate. Ten after twelve is the time. Are you. I mean, do you have any fewer rights in a mobile home than you have in a. In a. In a static home? Zero. 345-606-0973 Colin's in Billericki. Colin, question or answer? Hi, James. It's about space travel. You know, if you're in space, there's no up or down because of zero gravity. So has anyone decided which way up is in space? Because you see, like in Star wars or Star Trek, they meet an alien spaceship and they're all up the sort of. Right way, aren't they? So. Yeah, but just an absence of gravity. I may be misunderstanding you here, but the absence of gravity doesn't mean that. Oh, so you're taking down as being. No, I don't see. I think because of the North Pole, if you see any photos, Earth, it's always the North Pole at the top. But I guess an alien coming along could be up the other way and then to him the top would be the south Pole, the top of our planet. That's what a bit I'm confused about. So you're talking about our planet? Well, yes, our planet. We've decided North Pole is at the top and I guess going to our solar system, all the planets are aligned that way. We go to Mars and it's the north Pole. Would be. Would that be up for us? Yeah, but if we're going to do all this space travel and perhaps meet an alien craft, perhaps they could be the other way up. And then. Has anyone decided? Well, no, I don't think anyone has decided. If we encounter an alien species, I don't think we've yet decided. I mean, that's for sovereignty in a nutshell, that, Colin, because you'd have to take the alien species views on board before you could actually put down a rule that would apply to both of you. Yes, that's true. That's true. Yes. Beautiful illustration. The best illustration yet of why sovereignty is such a bogus argument in the context of Britain. But I didn't expect it when you came on to us which way up was in space, but it's a valid point. We'd have to listen to the aliens think about these things. Well, you kind of do when you get there and someone's upside down. Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't. That might be the way they really are. That might be upside. Right. Upside up for them. I mean, I don't want you losing any sleep about this, Colin, as, I mean, on the list of things we should all be worrying about at the moment, any questions silly or serious? I don't know. In space, no one can hear you scream. We know that. But do we know which way is up and which way is down? Thank you. Thank you. Take care. And you. Twelve after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 and, yeah, I probably am the only man in the country who would manage to squeeze in evidence based criticism of the Brexit nonsense in a lighthearted question about which way round is upside down in space. You're very welcome, Ian Zinwarwick. Ian, question or answer. Answer, James, please. Already. Bring it. Yeah. The. The longest added time. It's added. Called added time. Thirds of added time was in the last couple of years. And it was a game at Burton in the cup and Burton Albion. And it was about half an hour, I think, that the floodlights, they kept coming on and going off and coming on and off. It wasn't even injury. Yeah. So it's. It's. It was that. But there's. There's lots of. The referee is the sole timekeeper in a game and there's no actual time when he has to say, right, that's it. That's too much. And I had a game many years ago that we had. We waited 40 minutes for an ambulance to turn up to take a player away, and then we still carried on. Right. So they're probably on local parks pitches, would be even longer than 20, but you're looking at, what, 28 minutes, was it, did you say, or half an hour? Half an hour. Barton Albion. Can you remember who they were playing? They were playing Southampton, I think. Was it during Nigel's tenure as manager? Do we know? I don't know. I got my highest ever payout from a bookmaker when Burton Albion got a score draw with Manchester United. And it was such a remarkable bet, I can't even remember why I placed it, that they sent me a shirt signed by all the Burton Albion players. Oh, wow. From the bookies? From the bookies, yeah. Well done. Well. So I never really, thankfully, fell under the spell of gambling, but for some reason I just fancied that for I must have won on something else and put all my winnings on Burton Albion getting a score. Anyway, I digress. Are you 100% sure that this is the answer? It was recorded as the longest. And your qualifications are? I am an FA matchday observer. What does that mean? Used to be known as a referee assessor. Okay, so we go to football matches to watch officials. So you are. I mean, are you. Are you an endangered species now with VAR? No, because they used to have games, match assessors, as they were known at division, the old premier championship, whatever. They don't use it now. They have evaluators watching tapes of the games or videos of the games on the top two divisions. But in League one and League Two, you still got match assessors. And then I'm sort of the next level down. Fantastic. Round of applause for Ian. Thank you. Thank you. 12:15 we got our first answer on the board before the first break. That's quite a good omen for the rest of mystery hour. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 90 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where someone has tweeted me a very helpful bit of footage from one of the Star wars films, which puts Colin's question into slightly more digestible light. What Colin is essentially asking in this moving picture, this tweet from whatever word says, is the millennium falcon above or below the star Destroyer? So if you're in space, right, and, I mean, you'd think that if it's above your head, then it's above the star destroyer, but why would you think that? You could be upside down. In fact, the millennium Falcon often flies upside down, particularly when Chewbacca is at the controls. So in space, which way is up and which way is down? I don't think there's an answer to this question, but I enjoy the curious sense of infinity that occurs when we ask it. 20 after twelve is the time. Questions that still need answers. There may be a stewards inquiry, which would be fair enough, actually a VAR inquiry on the football question. Do you need. Do the police need a search warrant to come into mobile homes, as in camp at vans zero. 345-606-0973 and in space. Are you up? What's up and what's down? Ben's in High Wickham. Ben, question or answer? Hi, James. Hope you're well. My question is, hopefully going to settle something from me and my partner. Is it true that you can get a cold from actually being cold, or is that an old wives tale? Oh, what a great question. Do you have children, if you don't mind me asking? I've got a four month old. Yes, that's why we're talking about it. I thought it might be because then you've got that other thing when they're a bit older and they get wet and you say, oh, get inside, you'll catch your death. Every mom and dad in the world has said, you'll catch your death. Is it actually true? Because it's germs, isn't it? Exactly, yeah, that's my argument, that it's germs. But her argument is no. Finn's quartet swimming or, you know, from being cold in the car or something like that, and hoping to prove her wrong. Yeah, very well. It's a healthy relationship, if nothing else, Ben, we shall find out for you. Can you catch a cold via being cold? Zero. 345-606-0973 I think we intuitively think we. But that might be because we've been sort of brainwashed by our parents or our carers when we were young. Oh, you'll catch your death of cold. Can you catch your death of cold? Can you catch cold from cold? I wouldn't have thought so. Learning what I've learned about, you know, aerosols in the context of Corot. Anyway, I digress. 21 after twelve. Andrew's in Hammersmith. Andrew, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's to the question, do officers, police officers need a warrant to gain entry to, like a camper ban or something? Essentially, they need a power of entry granted to them by some section of the law. It is considered a residency and they would need some kind of. They would need some kind of power, not necessarily a warrant. So it could be under section 18 of pace or section 32 of pace, section 18 five. Any of these could be granted to the officer to gain entry and indeed use force to gain entry to the mobile home. But I couldn't, so I'd have to apply for that. You don't have to apply for it. Section 32 would be upon arrest. So if he was at his. If he was there at the time of his arrest. Yeah, it could be searched under section 32. No, but you've got grounds for arrest. Sorry, I'm not. I'm not picking holes and neither am I planning anything, because I suspect you're a police officer. I want to make it clear. Me and Gavin who asked the question, both stand up guys, never broken a law in our lives. Golf. So I'm in my campervan. All right. I apologize for any mental images that this may be conjuring up in the minds of unsuspecting listeners. And. And you're a copper police officer, a particularly good 1. May I say how excellent you look in your uniform and you arrive at my mobile domicile with no suspicion at all or grounds to arrest me. You're not allowed in unless I invite you in. Yes, correct. Just like a vampire. Yeah. I don't think you're going to be seconded to the PR team anytime soon, Andrew. But what if there was an exotic aroma emerging from my windows? Presumably there, you would be able. Would you be able to search my. Yes, right. If there was an exotic aroma, you could do something there. And yes, yes, that is possible. Is like, say, I mean, even if you were away from. It's so like, if you were. If you say you were arrested at, say, a cafe away from your premises, we could. If you were arrested, we could do it under section 18, which is signed off by this police inspector, not by a court, so it's not a warrant, but it is still a legal power that we are allowed to go into and search your premises for it. Also, extra fact, it also is considered a residency under the theft act, so it can be burgled, because it is both being used as a residency and it has a degree of permanence. Of course it does, yes. Oh, a comprehensive answer. You've swallowed pace. Which means I don't really need to ask you what your qualifications are, but I will do anyway. I'm a police officer. There you go. The smallest surprise of the day. Andrew, great stuff, mate, great. Can I ask you a silly question which you're probably not allowed to answer? Yeah, yeah, go on. You can hear the tremulousness in your voice. They can go, all right, James? Yeah, that'd be great, that'd be fine. The bridge being shut, which I appreciate, it's not a story of national import, but if you're in our neck of the woods and I am, as you know, Andrew, then it's. It. Has that had any impact on policing? It's. To be honest with you, I don't know. To be honest with you, I don't know. The main impact that it's going to have on us in policing is because prisoners are often scattered around the Met. It's us trying to get from one police station to another police station. Yeah, of course. And obviously the traffic impacts on police officers being able to get to places at high speed, et cetera, but, yeah. So it impacts in the same way as it impacts on pretty much everybody else. It's just getting to and from places. Perfect answer. And you've already secured your round of applause and enhanced the faith of the public in the thin blue line, Andrew, with your charm, decency, 25 minutes after twelve is the time. John's in Harrow. John, question or answer? Hello, Jones. I've got a question on behalf of my son. Okay. He's studying the Middle ages at the moment in school. Is he? And he's just come to the point where you've got the black death and he's learned that the black death was spread by the fleas of rats. Yes. So the question he wants to know is, were the fleas actually affected themselves by the black death? What a lovely question. Who? A bright lad you've got there. Oh, well, I hope so. Or do they just carry it like presumably the pangolin or whatever it was that introduced coronavirus to the human population? You'd ask a similar question. Did the pangolin suffer? But so does a flea carrying the bubonic plague have any symptoms is what we're asking. Really? That's it essentially. How old is your boy? He's ten. Is he really? And he's doing the Middle Ages already. 1665, was it the great plague? I get my numbers the wrong way around. I think they're doing the black death in the 14th century, the one before. What am I thinking of? What am I? 1665 wasn't was another. Okay. So many plagues, so little time, you know, every hundred years or so. So did the fleas that carried the bubonic plague, did they have any symptoms of plague? And we'll find out from her. Brilliant stuff. Great stuff. Thank you so much. No, thank you, John. Give him our best. Give him our best. 27 after twelve. I was about to recommend some. Some historical fiction there, but I don't know that it's suitable for ten year olds because I find it the most wonderful way of smuggling historical knowledge in while you're actually reading a stone cold page turner. So SJ Parris and CJ Sansom for slightly older listeners would be my top recommendations. And I'm always on the lookout for more, by the way. I don't like this. I think this makes us guilty of a bit London centric. It says here Andy's in Norfolk. Norfolk's huge. Whereabouts in Norfolk, Andy? I'm in Tetford. There you go. How are you doing? Very well indeed. Question or answer? It's a question. It's probably quite a silly question, but it's something that's always like me. I'm a finance manager, so this sort of stuff doesn't really ever come into my head, apart from on the odd occasion. Yes. Thursday's from twelve usually, I imagine. Why is it if you're in a dark room with the door open, so really dark room, completely blacked out, you can see a lit up room? Yeah, but if you're in the lit up room, you can't see into the dark room. It's probably something to do with light waves or eyes or the brain or some other wizardry of magic. But it's. It's always been that. Especially in movies. In horror films where you see a darkened doorway, yeah. You can't see in, but the person who's inside can see out. That's just messed with my head, to be fair. But isn't it. I mean, isn't it. I may have misunderstood the question, so let me get that excuse in advance. Okay, but isn't it just because you can see what is illuminated wherever you are. That's what I've been trying to sort of get my head around. So is it to do with the light reflecting off surfaces? And I'm probably answering my own question here. I've never known, properly known, the answer to it. I want to pinpoint precisely what you're confused by. Do you not understand why light in the lightroom hasn't come into the dark room the minute the door was opened? Yes. Yeah. So that would be the waves. All right, well, listen, this sounds to me like one of those questions that someone who really knows their stuff will understand and the rest of us don't. So you get it intuitively and they'll get it scientifically and hopefully we'll be able to bring the two together. Yeah. It's just the physical understanding of why that happens. Is it to do with the brain or the eyes or, you know, what's. What's going on there? Yeah, I love it. Nice one. Take care, Andy. Thank you. 29. Taking us right up to half past as well. So why can you see a light room from a dark room, but not a dark room from a light room? Zero 345-606-0973 he is. Yeah. It's about what light does and what eyes can see. But hopefully someone will be able to provide a fairly concise and yet comprehensive answer. Do fleas carrying the plague have any symptoms of plague? Can you catch cold from the cold? And when you're in space, which way is up and which way is down? It's 12:30 bill Overton has the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1234. Mystery hour continues. I'll remind you of questions still in need of an answer shortly, but we shall get a few more on the board first. Alan is in Birmingham. Alan, question or answer? It's a question, please, James, carry on, mate. My question is, do dogs get hay fever, sort of in the way that humans do? Why do you ask? Because we have a Labrador who, in the summer, when he's running through the long grass, gets all sniffly. Yes. And so we were wondering that in the summer we tried to phone and when it was all the kids thing, because our ten year old was fascinated by sneezing everywhere. That's terrible. I feel bad now. So we tried on a long drive back from Wales and we couldn't get through. So, a bit nuts. During children's mystery, what's your turning role called? Just in case you play this clip back to them, she's called Freya. Freya. So, Freya, this is for you, not for your daddy. Don't let your daddy pretend that he was the one that came up with this clever question when everybody knows it was you, Freya. I know the answer, mate, because we've done it before and it's not very exciting. It is a simple yes, they do get hay fever, and you can treat it problems if it starts, because the skin gets irritated as well, with some dogs, I think. But you get the full deal, the full human deal. Runny eyes, sneezing, you know, itchiness, all of that. And it is hay fever. It's an allergy to pollen, just like the human equivalent. There you go. Yeah. Round of applause for me, actually. Do you know, I was about to say, I was wondering why you weren't providing me with a little bit more. Because it's my job. Hang on, who's presenting you today? Is it you or me in the chair today, Alan, who's presenting the program? Well, I'm happy to hand over. You're very kind. I can't believe you know it. No, I. Should I talk about hiding your light under a book flavored bushel? Round of applause for me and a big wave for Freya. Well, play. You take care, Alan. And there we go. From. From roughly the part of the country where I grew up to the part of the country where my first home was Tom's in Doncaster. Tom, question or answer? I have a question, please, James, carry on. Why is non fiction called non fiction as opposed to the truth? Well, factual might not be the truth. It could be non fiction, but also not true, couldn't it? I suppose, in context of an inaccurate biography. So it's a. It's a good question that, isn't it? So, because you. I mean, what came first? I would have thought non fiction. Would you? I don't want to get into an ontological or theological argument, but I often think in. In the west, at least, most books lead back to. Most book based knowledge leads back to the Bible, which. Which, for the purposes of argument, will call non fiction. Sure. And that would. Yeah. Why is it called nonfiction as the negative of something else, as opposed to a word all of its own, like simply factual or. That's what I was thinking. Yeah, I know. You were just trying to put some flesh on the bones of your question so that you. You know, so that we can big up your part on the program a bit more, Tom. I'm welcome. I like that. A lot. Do you want to know whether the book I have out today is fiction or non fiction? Yes, please. It's non fiction, actually, Tom. Nonfiction. Thank you. Thank you very much indeed. I think he was asking that question in good faith. I don't think he was offering me an open door upon which to plug my book again. Because, as Tom and everybody else listening knows, I don't need any open doors. I can plug my book through a locked door. 1238 is the time in all good bookshops right now. Shanice is in Watford. Shanice, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on, Shanice. It's regarding the question about bubonic plague. Oh, yes. So neither the rats nor the fleas have any symptoms. So it's only harmful to humans or potentially other mammals, but I'm not entirely sure. But not to the rats or the fleas. There was a. A bit of research not long ago, I think, that sort of tried to remove fleas from the equation altogether and claim that it was human body lice that had been responsible for passing on the plague. But I don't think we need to worry ourselves with alternative theories today. What are your qualifications for knowing this? That neither rats nor fleas have symptoms of the plague they pass to humans. So, I have a degree in human biology, and I wrote my dissertation on the potential for the reemergence of the plague and its transmission. Oh, well, that'll do, won't it? Hang on. What did you get. Hang on a minute. What did you get in your. I got a distinction, so I got 70. 70 on your. Was it undergraduate or master's level? It was. It was undergraduate. Oh, I don't know if that's good enough. I mean, we're looking for a slightly higher academic caliber than a mere undergraduate dissertation. Shanice, what was the. I do have a master's. What's your masters in? It's in law. So I have. I have an LLM. That's no use, really, to me. What was the title of your dissertation again? Discuss the potential for the reemergence of the plague bacillus. Yeah, I mean, this is actually. I'm obviously. I'm teasing you. I'm actually contemplating giving you a Rayleigh otter for this. Because you. You have written a master's thesis on precisely the question, or very close to precisely the question that's popped up on mystery. I think that qualifies you for the. For the highest accolade that radio can bestow upon a human being. Shanice, are you ready for this? Yeah. Are you sure? I look forward to it. I can provide more information if you'd like. Shanice, you have, you have. You've not only knocked it out of the park, you've done a lap of honor and caught it again on your way back to the crease. I mean, this is an astonishing performance. Do you want to sit down? I don't want you to be. This might be a bit much for you. Are you ready? Absolutely. There it is. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That is the real, you know, that is the real Ray Liotta from. From. From Goodfellas, field of dreams, the Hollywood legend recording. Is it really? Yes, it is. Indulging the juvenile fantasies of a second rate radio presenter on british radio, the actual Ray Liotta. And we don't give them out very often, sinead, so tell all your friends. Oh, thank you. I will. I'm actually on my way into work and I pulled over specifically so I could answer this question. Look at that then. And now you're going to be on cloud nine all day because you got a Ray Liotta on mystery out on LBC with me, James O'Brien. He's the real Ray Liotto. He came in, I should tell this, so many listeners now who weren't here when all this madness started, he came in to be interviewed by Steve Allen. He's quite a tough guy, as you'd imagine. And Steve, bless his little cotton socks, asked him to record it for us. And you could imagine him turning around and going, no way, stupid idea. Get out of here, Steve Allen. Don't know who that was either. Sorry. But that was the real Ray Liotto, and we remain eternally grateful to him. 1241 is the time. Well played. Shanice Knoll's in Harrow. Noel, question or answer? Well, a question, but with the sky stewards on the football one earlier. Not allowed. Not unless you've cleared it with the producer, and we both know you have, Noel. Carry on. Question. Yes, in America, the Democrats are red and the GOP are blue. No other way around. And in Britain, where labour's red, socialism's red, tories are blue, but it's the other way around in the states, and so it seems worldwide. So communism's red, is it? And I don't know, actually, I wouldn't have, if you'd asked me in a pub quiz tonight what the colors were for the GOP and the. And the Democrats, I wouldn't know. And of course, there'll be plenty of people listening who would like me to point out that the Labour party, in its current guise, is not a socialist movement. But these are mere semantics for some people. So the Democrats are red and you want to know why? Given that in the rest of the world, the party perceived as leaning to the left is usually the party that is associated. I mean, the red flag will have something to do with it, won't it? I would have thought. You think the red flag. You think communism rested the world in the states? It's the Democrats. Democrats, Republicans. Yeah. No, sorry. Why the. Why are the Republicans red and the Democrats blue? Good question. I shall try and find out for you, Noel, although, as I say, I'm ignorant of the parameters upon which your question is based. 1243, or within which Hanif is in Manchester. Hanif, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. It's an answer. Top man. Carry on. The question about the dark room. And when you walk into a dark room, it wasn't as stupid as it sounded, was it? Oh, well, it wasn't to me. But some people may not know. The pupil right in the center of your eyeball dilates. So when it's daylight, it dilates and it gets bigger and it lets more light in. And when you go into a dark room, it contracts and it goes very, very small and it allows less light in. And it's that transition period between when you're going from a light place to a dark place takes about 15, 30 seconds for the pupil to dilate. That's why you can't see anything. And you can later on when it's pitch dark. I think you've done it, actually. And I think you understood the question, which makes me intrigued about what your qualifications are. I'm a doctor, okay? I'm a retired doctor. Well, that'll do. You sound too young to have retired. I'm 55. Put your shift in then and go over the line. That's nice, isn't it? Round of applause for Hanif, I think. Great work. And that's it. The dilated pupil in the dark room is going to admit loads more light than the tiny little pupil in the lightroom. And you just stare at a light and feel your pupils shrink, don't you? 1244 is the time I can tell you that it is being reported. And I think Sky News have just confirmed the Evening Standards report that Rishi and Patrick Valens will hold a press conference, or even a press conference today at 04:00 p.m. From Downing street. So that's exactly 3 hours before my live online book launch that you can find details of on my Twitter feed is dirtjamesob. And of course, the great thing about it is, is because it's virtual and online, despite having sold hundreds of tickets, it's impossible to sell out. So whatever time you decide that you're free this evening for an hour more of me, because let's all be honest, 15 hours a week of me is not really enough for you. You can join us tonight with Penguin Live. And the table's being turned on my full disclosure, I am being interviewed and you get a book sent to you in the post as well if you sign on today, you lucky people. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty Rishi Sunak announces that tier two employers will pay less and staff can work fewer hours before they qualify for government aid. The aim? To help firms that haven't been made to close. But will it work? Sheila Fogarty on LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue once again to solve some of the great mysteries of our time and what a lot of fun we have together doing it as well. I just one little bit of politics. I do, I do enjoy commentators who, you can't predict what they're going to say next. I think they're probably the most valuable commentators. It's why I find Peter Oborn's journalism so magnificent, and Dan Hodges of the Mail on Sunday is heading towards that category. He's just lots of praise for Rishi, but this represents a political defeat. He resisted spending this cash, which is why some of the support is retrospective. And again, I'm not sure that's fair, but it's a perspective that I hadn't put out on this program, so I'm happy to put it out there as well, because, you know, decisions taken in July don't work in October. That isn't embarrassing or failure. That's a recognition, retrospectively of reality. And the reality wasn't recognizable then because it hadn't happened. I would say worrying that I sound like a rishi sunak fanboy, which I am categorically not. 1251 is the time John's in Dulwich. John, question or answer? It's an answer to the cold question. Can you catch cold from cold? You can't catch a cold from just being cold and wet, because colds are generally caused by viruses, rhinoviruses, various other types of viruses, but if you do get soaking wet and freezing cold, it does have an impact on your body. Your immune system is less able to produce, you know, the cells that it needs to fight off infection. So not directly, kind of indirectly. So if there is a virus around the place and you're shivering and cold, you are more likely to fall victim to it than if you're feeling chipper, you are, because your body's obviously only got. It's got a certain amount of energy to expend and obviously, if you're freezing cold, it's having to keep you warm and it's less energy for it to spend. To spend on producing your immune response. Perfect answer. Qualifications? I've got a degree with the open university, life sciences and I studied infectious disease as part of that degree. Infectious disease? Yes, infectious disease. I tell you what, I bet anyone who was a bit skeptical about your subject choice a few years ago is eating their words now, aren't they, John? Well, it was a bit difficult sitting on the train, you know, with some of the course books and the looks I used to get, particularly with some of the diseases. But I won't go into that. No, you don't need to. Have you got any theories on coronavirus? Are you trying to work on a cure over in Dulwich? No, I'll leave that to the real expert, like Donald. Leave that to Donald Trump. He's got it all under control. Round of applause for John. What a great answer. Thank you, mate. So mums are right and wrong at the same time. You will catch your death, or you could catch your death of cold if you don't warm up quickly. But it won't be because you're cold, it will be because of a virus to which you become more susceptible when your body is expending energy on doing other things, like warming you up. Lovely answer. Joel's in bush, a very academic flavor to mystery out today with our theses and our open university degrees. And, of course, me. Joel's in Bushy Joel. Question or answer? Hi, James. The question. Carry on, mate. Imagine we're on a plane and it's an old pastime. Yes. Above the clouds. Why is it when you're flying close to the clouds, even though obviously not formed object, if you could see contours on the clouds, how comes you're flying? It seems slower than if you find the same distance between the plane and the ground at the same speed. So when you're. When you're cruising. Yes. So when you're. Why does it feel so slow? Yeah. Because if you're. If you're descending, I find anymore, and you're just above the clouds, you can see the contour, some sort of form of the clouds going past really slowly. But if you find the same height from the ground, it would be much faster, you know, have a faster period of time. I get it. And it's that it's in relation to the clouds, because they're the only metric by which we can judge speed, aren't they? You need to. I like that a lot. Recognize exactly what you say when you come in to land. It does feel as if you're slicing through the clouds at a rate of knots. But when you're cruising at x thousand feet, it's got quite a sort of. Almost a ponderous feel to it, like the. Like the sloths in that Disney film. Joel. Great stuff. Well, it's late now. We'll try and get you an answer. What else do we need answers. We've done the fleas. Clouds are on the board cold. We've done space. Which way is up and which way is down in space? And why are non fiction books called non fiction? Where does that come from? And why do the Democrats in America buck the liberal trends of the rest of the world's political parties by adopting blue as their color? And, of course, vice versa? Why are the Republicans red? Brian's in Bradford. Brian. Question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's an answer. Oh, go on. I'm dissenting from the stewards inquiry, isn't it? I could tell from your voice there was a certain. Oh, go on. Which one? Bubonic plague in the fleas. Oh, no, not Shanice. Let's hope. She's already got to work. We don't want to spoil her day. If you're right and she's wrong, what do you want to tell me? Okay, so the question is whether fleas suffer any symptoms from the bubonic plague. Yes. Your earlier call said no. I'm saying, yes, they do. Why? Now? They're not the same symptoms as humans, but how the plague affects the rat fleas is their stomachs become filled with the bacteria. This blocks their feeding tubes, which causes them, essentially, to starve to death. Now, this is important in the spread of. Of the plague, because rat fleas, by their nature, they only feed on rats, but because they're starving, they become less choosy on who they bite. So when they turn their attention to the human host, that's how humans get it. You can only get bubonic plague by a bite. You can't get it through droplets in the air. So the only. I mean, that is strong, isn't it? The only time a rat flee is likely to bite humans is when they aren't. They're buying lots of rat but not filling up and they don't understand why. Yeah. Emma's got a maths degree in public health. I knew I shouldn't have accepted her undergraduate qualifications. I said it. I said it at the time. I'm not taking away Shanice Israeli otter, but I am giving you a round of applause. Does that sound fair? Do I not get a really otter? No, because her thesis was specifically on this subject. Even though she might have made a mistake, doing a master's degree in public health does not put you in a very small. If you're. If your. If your thesis for your masters in public health had been about fat fleas, then, yeah, you'd get a Rayleigh otter. Okay. I mean, you sound ungrateful. How grudgingly accepts your decision. I might do. I might do a rishi sunak on you now and take away the original offer because you've been so ungracious in accepting it. Round of applause for bright, please. Okay, James, thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1257 is the time Mark's in Santa Monica. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Mark. And one that we can't find in the book that you just have published today, I hear. No, it's very kind of you to mention. I don't think it's available in the states yet, but you should be able to get hold of the audiobook or the Kindle version. No, the Kindle one is. Yeah. Phew. What a relief. I'm sure they're doing little else in the White House as we speak. Which one do you want to ask of the red and blue thing? Oh, yes, I'll do it the US way around, because embarrassingly, I don't know the english way around, but I moved here between the two George Bush elections and I wanted the same thing. And I asked my immigration lawyer, and it was to do with the television media and print media going colour. Okay. So that's. They needed colors to identify states as they turned a bit like they show red states, blue states. Yes. Yeah. And so the notion of calling them red and blue only became solidified on the first George Bush election. Is that right? First one in 2000. Prior to that, there were examples of the colors being reversed in, like, the early seventies, but the true solidification apparently only just happened as I moved here. A few years before. That's incredible. So it's a televisual convention, nothing to do with ideology or politics? No. In the newspapers, I think there is this sort of belief that red is the sort of, you know, the communist colour and all the rest of it, but that it was actually more the tv media and the fact that they went color that actually necessitated the need for that to be color associated with parties in America being such a sort of media oriented country. Mark, you've earned yourself a round of applause. Thank you. And brought us in bang under time, which is splendid. Thank you, Mark. I think. I think I know it. Yes. Anyway, we'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila, but before I hand you over to her, just something for people who've been kind enough to stick with me over the last few years. You may have noticed that I've got a new book out today and what I'm going to say to you next is something that some of you will completely understand and some of you won't. But neither have I, son. Here's Sheila. I understand it. That's sweet. Best of luck with the book, James. Thanks very much indeed. It was completely missed. Those are the words of the conservative mayor in the West Midlands, Andy street. What was he talking about? The fate of businesses trying to operate in tier two conditions, that's what. COVID social distancing, the rule of six. No household mixing, the 10:00 curfew all been hobbling businesses for months. And when extra help was announced for areas in deeper tier three measures, whose businesses were forced to close tier two, rightly, I think, cried foul. Rishi Sunak has announced a new scheme for them. Employers will pay less, taxpayer subsidy doubles and workers can do fewer hours in order to be eligible. But will it work? Will it work for you? And where does this all leave? Areas like Greater Manchester and parts of the northeast of England who've effectively been in tier two conditions for, well, Yonks.