How do you know not to fall out of bed?!

Three minutes after twelve is the time. And thank you. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where I say this every week, and every week I say coy even more than other weeks this week. But it really is nice to step away from the news agenda at the moment, from the violence and the trepidation about events in France, both past and looming, and from the, well, the rabbit hole that the referendum debate has become. We can now concern ourselves with our mutual interest in information, enlightenment, silliness and seriousness. It is mystery. Al, if you are, I'll give you a heads up on the phone number and I've got a couple of phone lines free. The question really is, can you answer any of the questions that are already on the board? And if you can, then you dial zero 345-606-0973 and dazzle us all with your knowledge. I routinely make you two promises at this point, on a Thursday. I promise you a that you will know more by 01:00 than you do now, with the caveat that it may prove to be utterly unwelcome and unuseful information. It will, however, be more knowledge than you currently have, I guarantee it. And I've never had to pay out a refund on this. You'll have one laugh out loud, at least often. Several. Last week, one fellow, we got quite late, I got a 1248 text through saying I just laughed out loud. I really thought that this week you were going to break your promise. Never happened. Someone always someone, it's rarely me. Someone else always provides, invariably provides a reason. So if you want to get involved, then you need to ring in. There are two rules, really. The first is that you're not allowed to be boring, and second is that you're not allowed to be repetitious. So if you ask a question to which we can remember turning our attention in the relatively recent past, then you'll be politely invited to move along. There's a website, an archive on the website at LBC dot Co dot UK, which a helps you work out whether the question you've got up your sleeve has been dealt with before, but also b is a very diverting and entertaining piece of journalism. Journalism. I don't know what it is. Anyway, it's very diverting and entertaining. You can find it over at LBC dot co dot UK. Dullness and repetition. Dullness is in the eye of the beholder, obviously. But if you just ask yourself this question, will lots and lots of other people with very different interests and outlooks, to me, be interested in the answer to the question that I'm going to ask. So if it is something like there's a roundabout around the corner from me, James, and I don't know where the fourth exit leads, you're not allowed to drive up it. Does anyone know? Then it's probably not going to make the list. Although it is somewhat surprising sometimes who does manage to squeeze through. And you'll only hear me say the number when I've got a phone line free. Is that everything? And no references. Again, so many new people tuning into mystery, partly because of the popularity of the podcast, actually. But if you are listening on the podcast, I have no idea what time it is, just so you know. And don't ring in, because we've already finished by the time you're hearing this. But you can't ring in with an answer if you've just looked it up, some of the questions you'll hear it would possibly be able to address with Google or Brewers dictionary phrase and fable, or the Encyclopedia Britannica or modern equivalents that. The whole point is we celebrate knowledge. We celebrate education. Actually, to be uncool for a moment, it's all about knowing stuff and why you know stuff and what you know. And when I ask you what your qualifications are, don't tell me you've got a bag of gymnastics award for and a CSE in woodwork. Tell me how you know specifically the information you've just shared with us to give you an idea of how broad that can be. Most weeks we hear from the professor of the AA understanding, professor of the public understanding of science at Brighton University. We hear from the professor of robotics at Middlesex University. But every single week, we will hear from someone who's able to answer the question they've just answered because they saw something on telly last week or last year. 1207 is the time. Shall we start? Shall we start? I think we should. Are you ready? Michael is in West Hampstead. Michael, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do they put a chemical that can be considered laxative in chewing gum? They don't put it in all chewing gum. And it's not. And it's not only in chewing gum. It used to be. I can't remember what it's called, but if I keep chatting, it might come to me. It ends in Oliver. The one I can remember ends ne. Cool mints. It was in cool mints when I was a kid. If you had three packets of cool mints, it was positively vesuvian. Female? No, not. I can't remember the name, but you're talking about the ones. The answer is the shiny. The shiny outside shell. It's the shininess that it provides. And it only becomes a laxative if you take it on a scale that you're not really supposed to consume. Chewing gum? No. No. I. I tried to give up smoking a couple of years back and. Yeah, I just noticed I kept on visiting the loo more than I normally would and I couldn't figure out why. And then I. I read the pack and it said may cause laxative effects. Why would they do that? So why is it in it? I think it's to make it the texture that can. Why am I trying to answer this? I haven't got a clue. I've already got it wrong. So when you took your nicotine gum, did it not have a crispy shell? No, it wasn't nicotine. I just replaced cigarettes with chewing gum. Oh. And how much gum were you chewing? Pack a day? And the gum you were chewing were the tablet types, right? Not the stick types? No, no, the standard old school sort of Wrigley's. What? Juicy fruit? Spearmint. But. But in a stick with it with a foil wrapper or like a little. You know, like a pez. Like a little brick with it with a crispy shell. A stick. Foil wrapper. Shut the front door. They're not laxative. Yeah, that's. That's the b's. Alarm just gone off there, Michael. That's. That's the lying alarms just. Are you alright, mate? Sorry, bim. No, you crack on. Well, he's not in a fire station, is he? We've got a lot of listeners in fire. Blimey. Keep in touch. Make sure everything's all right. Seriously, send out a search party. Why is there laxatives in chewing gum? I don't know. Do you? Dave is in Orpington. Dave, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on, Dave. Yeah, great. When Henry Vi became king, he was eight months old. Yes. I was wondering, who makes the decisions for a child king of the age? Whoever is most powerful in the court. So it might be a cousin, a brother. It might be the widow of the king, recently dead. It will be all about power play and politicking in the court. When would he take over? When would the young king take over? That's again debatable. But you'd think sort of when he reaches his majority, 16 or 18. And it's highly likely that the dead king was. Is Henry ii preceded by Henry I? I'm not sure about that. Nor am I, but whoever. Whoever preceded him would probably have had in place a plan for succession. You don't usually appoint a regent. It's usually some earl, often someone called Thomas Seymour, in tudor times, seem to assume the role of advising the king. And obviously, if the king is six months old, you can't really advise him of anything. But it's courtly. Courtly politics, mate. Oh, you're on form. Well, hang on, it's early days. I didn't know anything about laxatives in chewing gum, did you? No, actually, let's keep it that way. David could end in tears and all sorts of other associated trouble. Good question, though I'd forgotten how young he was. I was reading about Henry the first earlier today. This morning. What was I reading about Henry the first? I remember thinking, that's an interesting nugget, I must share that later. But no, it's gone the way, of all things and I've completely forgotten it. I haven't forgotten this, though. Thank you, Dave. Back to Beaconsfield. Jonathan is in Beaconsfield. Jonathan, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Is it possible that my Labrador could be gay? What makes you think it might be? Well, I knew you were going to ask me that and I was really worried that I was going to come up with stereotypical canine homosexuality tendencies, and it's difficult to put my finger on it. A greater interest in male dogs than female dogs. Distinct lack of interest in female dogs, even when they are on heat. That's probably two of them. He likes erasure. Stop it, you silly sausage. You might have a gay labrador. You might have a gay labrador. And just for the record, obviously you'd be supremely untroubled if your dog did turn out to be gay. But I know other species, we've done this before. We found a gay penguin, I think, and there are other examples, examples of homosexuality in the animal world, because they're always quite useful when dealing with religious fruit loops who claim that it's not natural or anything like that, specifically labradors or. Would you be happy with an answer that. Any domesticated pets, I suppose cats, even. No, let's keep it to dogs. Are you sure? He just doesn't have a very poor sense of smell? No, I mean, it was a very attractive poodle that he was disinterested in. Even I thought she was. She's all gone. A little bit strange that we're only ten minutes into it. Jonathan. I shall do my best to get. Can I ask what your dog's name is? Or would you rather protect his for him? Now, of course he won't mind Jasper. He's loud and proud. We think he is. He's certainly loud. We need to find out whether or not he is proud. Is it possible that Jonathan has. Well, Jonathan's Jasper is a gay Labrador. Zero. 345-606-0973 I've done the Henry II question. I hope it doesn't lend itself to a steward's inquiry. You never know. And why do they put laxatives in chewing gum? The word I was looking for. You're quite right. Whoever sent that in Lorraine is sorbitol Kool mints. When we were kids, we thought it was hilarious. It's stranger things that amuse you, isn't it, when you're young? And speaking of dogs, just for regular listeners to the program, this who have followed with some interest my journey over the course of the last year to alleged dog hater to dog owner. Guess what Rubicon I crossed yesterday in the park. Yep. I've now become the kind of dog owner who, if he's got spare bags in his pocket, picks up other people's dogs doings. I have now become that person. I'm not proud. I just thought you should know. Louise is in Twickenham. Louise, question or answer? Question. James. I have two daughters like yourself. Quick question. So your daughters are like me? How strange. Sorry? Talkative, obnoxious, arrogant. Never let anyone else get a word in edgeways. You got your work cut out there, mum. Also, I'm a big fan. I'm blushing as I talk to you. Quick question. So when both were young, I would never obviously leave them on the bed because I was always worried they'd fall out on the bed. Right. As we're older, we never fall out of the bed. What is the mechanism that stops us falling out of the bed at night? Is it a sensory thing? Why do we not fall out of bed at night? And also, why is it we obviously never leave our babies in a bed because we're worried they fall out of the bed? Random question, but it's bugged me for years. It's a great question. It's a great question. I don't know why, but somewhere in the back of my mind, I've got a theory, a feeling, rather, that someone else has told me in the past. It has something to do with when we used to sleep in trees as a spit. If that turns out to be true. I don't believe that. James, I know you. I know you get rounds of applause all the time. I don't believe that that will merit I'm not going around of applause for it anyway, because it's just a vague inkling. If it turns out to be true, the applause will go to whoever rings in with the answer. But you're absolutely right. And you get the bars, don't you, on the baby beds. And then you can take the bars off when they're ready to. But what's the mechanism? I don't understand the sensory mechanism that prevents. We don't do it because we're adults, we're bigger people. But when you're babies, you never allow a baby whatever to lie on a bed without anything there. I don't know the answer. Fantastic. We'll get you on, I promise. Well, I promise that we will do our level best. And thank you so much for the kind words, Louise. I hope your daughters grow out of this difficult phase that they're going through at the moment. 1215 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What changes inside a human being when they move from being a baby that has to sleep in a caged bed in a cot because the risk of falling out so acute, to not much older, to being a child who can sleep in a bed without having any barrier between them and the floor. What is it? What is the evolutionary or biological explanation? I love that question. I love all the questions, actually. Especially. No, they're all equal. The laxatives, the gay dog and the falling out of bed. It's 1215 LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. If you've been listening since the beginning, you'll get this. If you're just tuning in, you'll wonder what the heck you've missed. Alex Ferguson must be wearing pampers on match day. James, we are attempting to answer the following questions. Why do children develop the ability not to fall out of bed? There's probably a better way of articulating that, isn't there? What changes in us as we move from a cot to a bed so that we don't actually need the barrier in place anymore? Is it possible that Jasper, the Labrador, might be gay? Are you familiar with gay dogs? I'm pretty confident there is examples. There are examples of homosexuality right across the animal kingdom, but I'd like a definitive answer. And why do they put laxatives, a variety of names being put forward. Xylitol, sorbitol, and either way, poor old Michael in West Hampstead, who I'm what 70% certain was a firefighter who had to drop the phone the minute that alarm went off in the background. I don't know if I can prove that either way. And you'll struggle to get a phone line into the building to confirm it. He might not be around to hear the answer, but never mind, he can catch it on the podcast. 20 minutes after twelve is the time Jen is at London Bridge. Jen, question or answer? Answer. Go on then. Right, the chewing gum. Yes. It's not a laxative they're adding as such. It's a side effect. It's the, um. They're the sugar free gum they're talking about and they're the artificial sweetener and the art. What are you doing? What are you actually doing at the moment? Driving. I'm on driving or riding a horse. I know it's an old cab I've got. And she does make quite a lot of noise, I have to say. Goodness me, I thought you were riding a horse over London bridge. I thought, what's that terrible? Wouldn't that be a pleasure? It would indeed be. Be a pleasure. Go on then. So it's a sweetener. It's a sugar replacement sweetener. That's right, yes. And it does have that effect. And you can buy the same product and you can use it in cakes and it, you know, if it works for you, I mean, it makes the case. They do taste very nice. The consistency isn't a lot different to sugar. However, it does have that side effect. And your qualifications are? I'm on a low sugar diet. I don't use that very often because of the side effects. Unless I'm not going out, obviously. Yeah. Well, you know, I do. Yes. No, say no more. That's pretty conclusive. And it's called xylitol. That was one of the names sent in earlier and it obviously means that they couldn't find anything that was as effective a sweetener without this side effect. That's right, yes. That's pretty comprehensive. Jen, would you like a round of applause? Oh, yes. There we go. Thank you very much, Gilbert. You're very welcome. 22 minutes after twelve is the time Derek is in Chester. Derek, question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. It's the sorbitol question. You've just answered it. She's almost right. It is a side effect, but it's used as a humil, which basically retains moisture in the product and extends the shelf life. I think you're both right. I think you're both right. Yeah, I think, yeah, absolutely. I think sorbitol is what I remember being in cool mints, which in the mouth, they had a really weird mouthfeel it was quite a wet mint, if you follow what I mean by that, Derek. And xylitol in the chewing gum. In the sugar free chewing gum will be the same as the stuff she uses as her baking supplement. Instead of sugar. Exactly. Yeah. What are your qualifications? I'm a confectioner. Are you really? Yeah. I don't use it, but I know about it. What sort. What sort of confectionery do you confect? Mostly chocolate fudge. Another small business of Chester. What's it called, mate? Called? Burlings. Burlings. And are you in town? Are you in the town centre? Yes. Yeah. I'd offer you a free advert. You've been so generous in your. With your knowledge. Knowledge to us. And also you get a free. You go. You've had the free advert. You also get a round of applause. I've got a special offer on this week. Carry on. Cheers, Derek. Keep me on in the shop. That's all I ask in return. As long as we're discussing suitable matters. Margaret is in reigate. Margaret, question or answer? Question. Yes. Well, after the talking of the colour, my granddaughter said, if a future monarch has their birthday in June or in the summer months, when do we celebrate the trooping of the colour? On the actual birthday or on another day? Or what happens if the actual birthday falls on a Saturday? That we usually have the trooping of the colour, if you get my drift. I get your drift perfectly. It's a small world. Margaret, how old is your granddaughter? 26. I was about to say my eight year old and I had exactly the same conversation at the weekend. Really? Yes. Yes. I didn't think your granddaughter was going to be 26 when you said it. She's one of many. The answer is that I don't know what would happen if the official birthday fell on the same day as the same birthday. I imagine she would only have one birthday. He or she would only have one birthday. In the absence of that amazing thing happening, those planets aligning in that way, the official trooping of the color will always be on the official birthday. Do you know why this tradition developed? Oh, it goes back, doesn't it? Go back to one of the. Georges had a birthday in the winter months. So much like parades, he wanted it in the summer. Bingo. George II. And what my eight year. What my. I think I heard that. On your progress. See, there is a reason to. Listen, Margaret. And what the. What my eight year old and I worked out, and this is how I could mention it the other day, was that you can't guarantee. So you have the official birthday and then the monarch passes away. You're still going to want to have a trooping of the colour for the new monarch. So you still need to have the official celebration on the same day. Oh, yeah. Cool. Do you see what I mean? This is my eight year old. Actually. I can't claim the credit for this, because she said, what if the king dies, but just before his party? Will there not be a party for the new king? And I said, well, of course there will. And that is part of the reason why it was November. George II's birthday always rained. He got the right old hump with having his parade. Literally, it rained on his parade, Margaret. Oh, come on. Literally, Margaret. It rained on his parade. Yeah. All right. Yes. We're like. We'll give you that one. Give yourself a round of applause. No, no, this is. No, stop. No, no. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Margaret. Oh, thank you. I'll give you a tip. Thank you, mom. 1225 is the time. Marie is in Croydon. Marie, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do they. Why you're. When you're voting, all this voting we've been doing recently. Why is it in pencil? Why do you do your voting slips in pencil? Because pencils don't run out. Yeah, but for any other legal documentation, I'm an accountant. You would never do anything not or in pen. You're allowed to bring your own pen if you want. Are you allowed to do it if you want to? Yeah. You're allowed to bring your own pen if you want. There are two reasons why we always use pencils. The first is operational. If you think about it, the pencils are kept by the relevant bodies in boxes, often at one year or even five year or four year intervals. If you used anything else, by the time you took them out of the boxes after a year, none of them would work. Right. So they use pencils because they never run out. And you can see whether they work simply by looking at them. Okay. Reason number two is so that if you don't win, if your side don't win, you can all get together and claim it was an awful conspiracy and they were rubbing out votes and filling them in again. But you are allowed to take a pen if you want. So some people of a slightly eccentric persuasion will turn up out the ballot box with their own pen because they believe that if they don't, someone might rub it out and change their allocation. Okay. Can you help me a bit, Sam? What were you about to say no. I just don't find that very. You know, all the expenses we have in the world, we're worried about some pencils. Yeah. Pens aren't exactly the most expensive thing. And who's going to go out and buy them? Trooping the color, not trooping of the colour. You're so right. I'm so sorry. Anyway. Sorry. I mean, it's pens. I mean, come on. It's not like it's the answer to the question. It's the answer to the question. I can't do more than answer question correctly. I can't give you a question, an answer you prefer without being wrong. Well, I just. I just don't get it. All right, then I'll give you the real answer. The real answer is that the Bilderberg group make all the pencils in the world and they can actually influence your vote through a form of telekinetic pencil based psychological manipulation, which is why every single result in every single election, everywhere in the world goes exactly the way that the Bilderberg group wanted. Do you prefer that? Is that better? No. No. Well, it's just that pencils don't run out, so you keep them in a box and you can pull them out again and use them. But if you, if you are worried, you can use a pen. Okay, I'm gonna go with the pen next week. You can, I think, you know, and if you can't, then you can use the pencil that's there. But I'm pretty sure that you can. And I get another round of applause, which puts me in a very odd situation of feeling uncomfortable about showing off. I'm not showing off, but if I know the answer, I can't. I don't know, maybe, maybe if I know the answer to a couple of the looming questions in the second half, I won't answer them. I don't know, but I'll certainly take this in the meantime. It is 29 minutes after twelve. I can squeeze in. Martin, can I? In wood green. Martin, question or answer? Go on then. And I've spoken to you for so many years, I never thought I'd have the possibility. A round of applause, to my knowledge, on gay dogs don't count you gay chickens. Yeah. I went to a Richard Dawkins lecture a few years back and someone in the audience asked if there was an evolutionary purpose of humans being gay. And he went on to explain that 10% of all animals are gay and that the speculation is that it has a survival mechanism within our genes that mean masculine males will be less threatened by gay males and leave them back with the pride, so to speak. And therefore all animals have the gay gene within them. They play a role in nurture and child rearing. Perhaps rather than hunting and gathering. I can recommend a book called the Ant and the peacock by Helena Cronin on that one. I think you're empty. Go on. There's also a very funny sketch by Ricky Gervais where he goes into depth about all the different gay animals. Although there were no pictures, it was just a guy who sat down drawing pictures of what they might do. That rings a bell. You have obviously brought Jasper, the Labrador's owner, a degree of satisfaction and closure. Martin and I like your qualifications. Have a round of applause. There you go. It's the level of excitement we want to hear. 12:30 is the time. Rupert Barter is here with the headlines. The bank of England is warning. It's increasingly on LBC. 1233 is the time and you are listening to mystery out on LBC. We've done the gay dogs, we've done the laxatives and we've done the Henry II question, a couple of others as well. But we still need to know why humans, or how humans develop the ability not to fall out of bed, if you follow what that question addresses. I love this question. Why babies sleep in cots? Because they don't possess whatever it is. You need to stop yourself rolling over and then rolling over again and then falling out of bed and landing on the floor and hurting yourself. I know sometimes adults do it, of course, but generally speaking, we don't need a cage or bars on the side of our bed. And you achieve that stage in life when you become a toddler, don't you? It's all two, three years old. Or is it even younger than that? It's a while ago for me. I can't remember. What is it? What explains it? I want the evolutionary explanation. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you've got it. I think that's the only one still on the board. We nailed all the other. I told you I had to stop answering the questions. All right? Even if I know the answer, I will not. I can't do that. I'm like a labrador. I can't help myself. I'm jumping up at you trying to answer the question. If I think I know the answer to it, I will do my best to keep my labradorian tendencies in check. 1234 is the time when I say I'm like a labrador, I don't think I'm like Jasper? I just mean I'm, you know, like all labradors. Colin is in Farnham. Colin. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Come on, Colin. Right, firstly, thank you for taking a call from somebody called Colin. I've reviewed that rule. It's my pleasure now to talk to you. I apologize for the years in which you were banned from ringing the program simply because you were called Colin. I feel exonerated. Thank you very much. You are. Come on. Come on. Okay. Right. I have just had plastic surgery on my face at St George's and I'm wondering why it's called plastic surgery. There's no plastic involved. Not now there isn't, but oh, when. When it was developed to help fighter pilots who'd been disfigured during the Second World War by sort of Douglas Barda era. I can't remember the name of the doctor. Would it not have been called in those days? Ovaker light surgery? I don't. I think it was the very early incidences that did employ. I don't know if you want Baker like surgery, you have a whopping great phone receiver. Stuck to the side of your head is the image. You just punch it up. Don't snort, Colin. Otherwise I'll have to review the lifting of the anti Colin ban on the programming. I'm going to leave it on the board for someone with a more knowledgeable answer, but I think that is close. In its earliest days then it was actually a plastic that was used to cover scarring, most obviously to sort of provide that kind of, well covering for injuries sustained in the second World War. Are you all right, mate? Has everything gone well? Yes, yes. Good old St. George is spot on. Yeah, the op went well. I now look a bit like Sean Bean, but hopefully it will get better. What the heck did you look like before? If looking like Sean Bean, he's moving in the wrong direction. I'm sure you didn't mean Mister Bean. That I would understand, but Sean Bean's a fine figure of a man. That's more like me, I must admit. Yes, Colin, take care. A swift and full recuperation and hopefully an answer to your question as well by 01:00 today. I don't think we've had. We kept the laugh out loud promise very early this week, didn't we? Thanks to laxative chewing gum and old Jasper Matt is in Leatherhead. Matt, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Vic. Why is it short for Richard? Well, I never know how to deal with these questions, why is Jack short for John? I mean, they have the same number of principles. Why Jim for James? Not short. Jack's not short for John. Nobody said jim, james, jim James. It sounds similar. But Richard. Well, go Richard to Rick. Maybe. I don't know. In old English, the shape of the R would have been. But I mean, why would Bill be short for William? Billion. I mean, Richard would have been Rickard when the Normans came over. Right. They still sounds a bit similar, doesn't it? Whereas Dick sounds nothing like Richard at all. It sounds exactly like Rick. Bill, William. Bill, William, Dick, Rickard. It's the same. I don't know, there's a little bit of me that worries that you've rung up, because it's a sort of slightly rude word and you thought it'd be hilarious to say it on the radio, but you sound too old. No, I know you sound too old and sensible for that to be the case, but not at all. Because when I. When I was younger. Yeah. And I found out, it really confused me when I found out that dick was short for Richard, because it made no sense. I didn't actually know that when I. You know, it was a bit of a shock. Fair enough. I'll put it up. But I think Rickard, if you go with Ricard instead of Richard, which would be the original Norman pronunciation, then you might have a better answer. And remember when we were talking about you go back to Richard III and monarchs from that era, they'd be talking French most of the time. Yeah, that might be it, but I'll find out. Someone who knows more than I do will know the answer to that. So we've got the plastic surgery question, the Richard Dick short for Richard question, and the falling out of bed question for Louise. So I thought that one would be quite easy to answer. Where's Professor Howell? Is it Professor Howe on that? He might know that he's stronger on chemistry than biology, though, historically, Fiona is in St Albans. Fiona, question or answer? Answer. Come on, then. Right, well, it's to do with. Why don't babies, or why do they fall out of bed, I think. I'm not absolutely sure, but I think it's to do with your proprioception, which we all have, and it's basically your body's awareness of itself in relation to its environment, so it's how you're able to move without having to think about it. And I think in babies, it probably isn't as developed as it is as you get older, and that's probably why? They. They fall. What was the word you used? The fancy word used? It's pro preoception. Proprioception. Yeah. Which, in layman's terms, is sort of an ability to know where you are in the universe without even thinking about it. Yeah, basically, yeah. And why would that not be like speech or anything else that develops with time and experience? Well, I'm not absolutely sure. I just think that. Be more like me when you're not absolutely sure, come in even harder with a degree of certainty and an impression of omniscience. Don't be hard on me. It's my first time calling in, so I'm really nervous. No, you're doing brilliantly. I think you're probably right. But the fact that you said you're not really sure, it kind of prevents me from being able to give you a round of applause. Well, what are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? Right, well, I'm a matsu therapist. Pardon? You're going to ask me what that is now? I am, yes. It's basically, it's like a japanese kind of holistic therapy. It's based on japanese healing techniques, but it's backed up by western signs. So it's an alternative holistic therapy to going to an osteopath or a physio. And it's an absolutely wonderful therapy. Like oriental pilates. No, you're actually restoring natural, integrated movement into people that have lost a degree of movement or they have pain in their body, like a bad back or a neck or a shoulder, whatever it is. So you're just basically restoring the natural balance into their body. I like this answer, and I like the fact you've thrown in a clever word, proprioception. And I like the idea that if we just see that as a learned behavior, then we can put it up with everything from speech and movement and walking onwards. Can I just add one more thing? More the merrier. Athletes have very refined proprioception, and that's why they're very good at what they do. Okay, so, like eye hand coordination, but on a grander scale. Basically, yes. Yeah. So I think that is another reason for why. So you have. You have a subconscious, even when you're asleep, a subliminal understanding of where the boundaries of the bed are. Yes, basically. So if you. So you know, you can test yourself and close your eyes, basically. And obviously, you know, your sight is one of your senses, but it's not the only sense that you have. I like it. I think you may have done enough, Fiona, actually. Okay. Okay. Well, actually, I'm gonna have to wait and see what the computer does. All right. Are you ready? Yes. Okay. Oh, wow. Wow. Great work. Brilliant. Congratulations and thank you. I hope Louise in Twickenham is satisfied with that answer. I suspect she'll let me know if she isn't. It works for me. If you want to challenge it, you know what you can do. 1242. You can challenge it. Sorry, that sounded rude. If you want to challenge it, you know what you can do. You can get lost. No, if you want to challenge it, you can. I liked it. That's why I got the round of applause. Olivia is in Edgeware. Olivia, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on, Olivia. And when a new film comes out and over the weekends, it says it took. How many millions in box office sales do they take into account that it's more expensive now to go to the cinema than it was, say, 40 years ago? No, they don't. So would that not just mean that every film that comes out now because it takes more money would just be, well, look at the top ten. They're all from the last ten years, pretty much. Right, okay. That's all. I was supposed to not be answering this half of the show, but that was just such an open goal, Olivia. And you couldn't help yourself. No, that's why Avatar, you know, it's highly unlikely more people went to the Avatar on its opening week weekend and went to see Star wars or the Empire strikes back, more obviously, but because you know, you're paying ten quid or 15 quid a ticket now, they're bound to have a better box office receipt. All the older films are just going to drop off. Well, you've got no way of working it out either, have you? Because you can't. I mean, you don't know how much tickets cost, so you can't do the dividing sum. I don't know how much they can do it. When they say a loaf of bread costs x amount and the equivalent of that today would be, yeah, but you can do it. I guess, but you'd have to divide however many tickets were sold by the total box office receipt. You could do that if you knew how much one ticket cost. But what would it teach you? Sold the most tickets. Yeah, I just wondered how it gets into the Guinness Book of Records as the best selling ticket. Just that, seriously. I mean, if we kept the prices, kept the prices low for 20 years, it would be a lot more meaningful, wouldn't it? Yeah. All right, then. Sorry, Olivia. I wish it had been more exciting. And I wish it wasn't becoming embarrassing. How many of these I'm getting today? David is in Stroud. David, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. April, May and June. Yes. All girls names. The other months. Why not the other months? Because no parents ever called their kid October. Actually, they have this. January. Jones. Yes. Yeah, I have to be a little bit careful now that I'm not bringing in names that I seem to have gleaned from the world of adult entertainment. Is that made up one? Well, they're all made up. There was a bond girl with a name as well. Wasn't there a bond girl recently who had a month as a name? The answer is, it can be a name. If you want, David, you just have to have a daughter and call her October. True, true. But why not? Why. Why aren't they out there? Because no one's had a daughter and called her October. Look just like the sound of May and April and June. They're spring. Yeah, but why not the others? Because nobody's done it. David, mate, you sounded like a conspiracy theorist. There can be no other explanation for why there aren't girls called October than the fact that no parents have called their daughters October. You can call your daughter Rover if you want. Now, that would be silly. Yeah, well, I'm not having a round of applause. I've had. No. Stop talking. I can't be a better answer to that. How could you have a better answer? Well, what did they come from? What do you mean? Where did they come from? What's wrong with July? Julie? Julia. Yeah, that's not July, though. Not April. May, I sense that I could absolutely bury you in knowledge and explanation and you still wouldn't be able to see. No, I do know. No. Yeah. No, there's no answer to it. Why? Why not the other month? Yeah. Because nobody has called their children on a grand scale by the names of the other month. Because. Well, why didn't. You haven't got any. There you go. That's one reason. The other is, when I do, they're going to be called August and September. Which means you've just agreed with my answer. Just to spite you. Despite me. By proving me right. Probably. Yeah. We always are. 1246. Finally say something sensible from the LBC travel center. DC 1250 is the time. Just a quick glance in the rear view. Mira Kirstie's been in touch to say my daughter is called December Rose. What a beautiful name. And not the only one. We also heard from someone whose niece. Kevin. It was in Bracknell. His niece is called October. And I was right. January Jones is the actress in Mad Men. So 1251 is the time Siri is in Woking. Question or answer, Siri? Answer. James. Carry on. It's why Richard has become shortened to Dick. Go on. In previous times, in victorian times and earlier, generations of the same family would live in the same house and children were always named after their parents. So you'd have granddad, dad and son, maybe all called John or Richard, and then there needed ways of distinguishing them. So John would become Jack, Richard would become Rick, and then Dick, Mary would become Molly, and then Polly. So you ended up with a lot of names that in this day and age, we see them as separate names, but back then they were recognized as, you know, Margaret, Meggy, Peggy. So you distinguished, you know, whether we're talking about the gran or the mother or the little daughter, beautiful aunt, because I grew up with. My family's all been James's for years, so my dad was Jim when we were growing up. I don't know what his dad was, but we never all lived under the same roof, so that. That would be why my dad was always Jim and I was always James. Yep, exactly. Just to keep the generations apart. A beautiful answer, Siri. And how ironic that your name has now become associated with that thing on apple that everybody can ask everything. Oh, I just wish I'd invented it, Jay. I bet you do. What are your qualifications in this context? I read a lot of victorian novels. That'll do nicely. There you go. Round of applause for Siri. Thank you. No, thank you. I love that answer. It's a really lovely. I love mystery, I love my job, I love this show. Ron is in Chingford. There's a lot of love around Ron. What have you got for me? A question or an answer? I've got a question. But I also know in August as well, FYI, a man or a woman? Woman. Because there's August Strindberg as well, the swedish playwright. I should have hit Dave over the head without the silly olds. Exactly. Carry on. My question. Yes. Is to do with my wife dragging me out shopping. Now, I'd much rather sit on the computer and all my clothes and not worry about it and wait for them to turn up. Now, the issue I've got is when I went shopping, I ended up buying a few pairs of shorts of trousers and not one of them measurements matched up. So I'm not, for instance, a 32, because one pair of trousers will be a 32 and I range from 32 34 and 36. Now, I've heard people say this is to do with a cut and all that, but why would we have a measurement if it's such a vast difference? I mean, there'll be a little bit of wiggle room in the cut and the thickness of the. Or the width of the measurement, though, isn't it? I'm with you. Have you seen the lady in the woman in the paper today complaining to. I think it's h and m. She's a size 14 and there's a picture of her pulling on a pair of size 16 jeans that don't fit over her. And she's exactly in great shape. Why have we got these numbers? What are these numbers actually represent? Why is there so much disparity in sizing from one brand to the next? You phrase it a lot better, obviously. That's why they pay me the silly money, Ron. That's why they pay. I think it's frustrating because if it was a measurement, then I could see at home and do online shopping and not have to walk around lakeside shopping center for 3 hours. Tell me about it. Trying. I hate trying on stuff as well. I wish. I wish you could just sort of press a button and see what you look like in it without having to get your ketchup off all the time and what have you. And then you have to walk out and show your wife what you're wearing. Like some sort of, I don't know, show pony or something. What? Tell me about it, mate. That's awful. If you're in mozzarella sparks, you got David Gandhi and his undercrackers looking down at you like some sort of greek God just to make you feel inadequate. Strange days. But it's got to be some sort of answer as to why it doesn't correspond to a particular size. I can imagine why it started. I imagine it started because if we were both selling trousers, you and me, or let's say we were selling frocks, actually, and we both had them labeled as a 14, and a lady's trying to choose between the two. And I would go, actually, I'd change mine to a twelve. She'd buy that because it'd make her feel thinner. Yeah. And then maybe it just became a race. Maybe it became a race to the bottom. I don't know. We'll put. We'll put. It's on the board. Why is there so much disparity in solar between brands? I like that question, Ron. And my friend, I feel your pain. Martin is in Bookham in Surrey. Martin, question or answer. Answer. James. Wait. Stay that. Hold that thought. Clear the phone lines to get an answer to the last question. Otherwise, I don't think we're going to have time for anything else. So no more questions. Stewards, inquiries and answers only. Back to Martin with his answer. Hello. Well, it's to do with plastic surgery. Yes. I think the word plastic, well, I know it existed way before the substance we call plastic. I'm sure it existed in the 17th century. Wordsworth uses it in. In one of his essays, and he died in 1850. He talks about the imagination being plastic. Plastic means able to be bended or molded. So I think. I haven't looked this up. I think that plastic surgery is to do with the making the contours of the skin or the face, or particularly the visible bits, as good as they can be. Does that sound credible? It sounds more than credible. It sounds incredible, compliment or not, because it is. It is not, in a sense that you're not curing an ill or curing a disease or addressing an ailment. You are simply remoulding a body. And that is plastic. Malleable. It means malleable. Plastic. I guess it's connected with the word plasma, but I didn't study Greek, so I don't know. No, I don't know either. But that's a beautiful answer. I love it. What are your qualifications? Just thinking. Well, I read English at university, and I've taught English and Latin in secondary schools for 40 years. I was driving the car and heard that and thought, I think. I know. I think you've got it. Right. Thank you. No, thank you. Good man. Thanks, Martin. It's 1256. Simon is in chartsy. Simon. Question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. Right. The size difference in clothes that you buy in shops. Yes. Most of the clothes that are sold in retailers are all made by the same people. Yeah, kind of. But that makes it even more of a mystery. No, that makes it even easier. Go on, then. Because they're made by the same people. What happens is when you get the cloth delivered from the retailer who you're meant to be manufacturing for, they give you a breakdown of the amount of sizes they want, of the quantities they want of each size. Yeah. And if, for argument's sake, they make a mistake on the cut, for argument, say, after the material has been laid, literally, when they come to the end and everything stitched, if they haven't got enough of one size, they just literally label it with the size of something either smaller or larger. No way you're gonna get that. Because that would mean you would have three pairs of trousers in the same shop that could all be different sizes, even though they've got the same size on them. Yep, exactly. No way. No way. I know this because my first job, when I left school 35 years ago, I worked in a dress factory and I seen it done. And also not having it if you go, seriously. No, haven't it? My first job was in a menswear. Menswear store, and I never, ever found two pairs of trousers with the same. Which were different sizes with the same number on them. Yeah. Because the thing is, they'll probably go to different retailers. It's just insane. There's no earthly way that they build 100 pairs of 34 trousers and then decide, oh, no, we better flog half of them as 30 sixes. I'll be accused of blowing the doors wide open on the myth because I've seen it done. I used to be the one who used to lay the material out and I used to watch. You are like the woodward and bernstein of trousers. Well, now I'm the wood trouser gate. This is trouser gate. Except, unfortunately, you're wrong. No, unfortunately, I'm right. Well, fortunately for me, you're off. It's 1259. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Quick roundup. The conversation with that questioner about girls names is the funniest thing ever. I think I actually wet myself, says Darren. I am not adding that to the list of guarantees that I make at the beginning of every mystery. Our time now to put you into Sheila Fogarty's extremely capable hands. Well, there's still time, because I'm having a mystery hour of my own, really, between two and three. It's time to get your questions in now on how a vote to leave if it happened, would affect your day to day life. Zero. 345-606-0973 it very much is a mystery. Still, it won't be this time next week. No, it will still be this time next week. The following morning, it won't be. Experts will be with me on travel, your finances and the law. Ask me anything from two after the news. Campaigners say naming people accused of child sexual abuse is an effective way of helping other victims to have the strength to come forward. See the case of Clement Freud this week, for example. But look, today.