Can a policeman commandeer a vehicle?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, four minutes after twelve. I'm sorry to labor the point, but so many people tuning in, relatively new or even box fresh, that I do have to explain some of the stuff that you might already know. But this is why mystery I got invented so that we could fill at least an hour on a day when we're not allowed to talk about the major news story unfolding in the country. And it stuck. All these years later, we still do it every week because it's so much fun. Why is it so much fun? I don't know. It's something to do with the journey rather than the destination. But it is, in simplest terms, a phone in that involves you ringing in with a question that needs an answer and then other people ringing in with the answers. But somehow it ends up being much more than the sum of its parts. The alchemy of live radio coupled with the quality of contributions and even perhaps the occasional charismatic intervention from Keith, even more occasionally, me. But hey ho, if you're new to this, I can say you're in for a treat. I'm not even going to bother with the spiel because, I mean, it's all there and the phone lines are already full. Actually, that's not true. There's one line free. If you want to grab line nine, you can on zero 345-606-0973 otherwise, if you hear a question to which you know the answer, do ring in and provide it. If your qualifications for providing the answer are exceptional, exemplary, incredible, you'll get a rayliota. We had a lovely non mystery, a reliota this week. To be honest with you, they're often my favorites. They're harder to award. But we were talking about the pound 400 million of iranian government money that we hung onto back in, I think, January 1979, after the shah was overthrown in the islamic revolution. And the fellow who'd been working at the ministry of Defense that day, by his own description, a relatively lowly civil servant. But he took the call from the military attache at the iranian embassy, still loyal, of course, to the shah's regime, the previous regime. He took the call about the tanks that were ready to be shipped to Iran. And if that wasn't qualifications for a Ray Lyota, then frankly, I don't know what is. And if you don't know what a ray Lyota is, well, stay tuned and hopefully you'll find out. Tim's in Earl Shilton in Leicestershire. I have never heard of Earl Shilton before. What a magnificent name. Magnificent name for a village town. Yeah. Thank you. Sounds. Sounds better than it is possible. I thought the former Nottingham forest goalkeeper might have been ennobled for a minute when I saw what was on the screen. But it's you, Tim. What? Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. It's. Why are babies born without kneecaps? What? So we have a two and a half year old son and a two month old daughter and neither of them have developed kneecaps. And I believe that's a common thing. I have kneecaps. And I presume you do too. I have two. And just wanting to know why they are born without them when we develop them later. What do we mean by. By kneecap? You mean the sort of bony lid bit. Yeah, it's like the. Yeah, the patella, the cartilage y sort of knee. Kneecap. Well, I don't. I've never even clocked that before. My kids are both teenagers now. You'd think I might have noticed. Well, I don't know. It's definitely not just your children. You don't have the only un kneecapped children in the country. Well, I suppose that's what I'm here to find out. It seems unlikely, doesn't it? Wow. Why are babies born without, if indeed it is a commonplace thing rather than a biological phenomenon, confined to Earl Shilton? Must be something in the water. Why? Why. So is it true? Almost certainly. It'd be too weird if it wasn't. And why is that? I like that. And two and a half, you say? And he still hasn't developed the hard kneecaps that adults have. No. Well, you live and learn, which is usually a promise I make at the beginning of mystery hour. You will know something by 01:00 today that you didn't know at twelve. And don't me. Don't even at me. It's 1208. If you knew that already, then it doesn't prove my theory wrong. It just means you haven't learned something new yet. Tim. Thank you. Matt is in ashtead. Matt, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Pleasure to speak to you. And the question is about kettles. Right. I have noticed. And I've done the science on this. I've done the science. Hang on a minute. He's done the science. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. He's done the science. Carry on. Maybe not science. I've done my homework. Let's say that I've done my homework. I want someone else to do the science because it's beyond me. Right. So I think that the standard domestic kettle boils for 20 seconds too long. So if you put a pint of water in a kettle and boil it in my kettle, it takes a minute and a half. Cut it off 20 seconds sooner, you get the same cup of tea, but it's drinkable within, say, three minutes. If you go for the full one, it would be five to six without scalding your tongue. So my question is, if all the domestic kettles in the country cut off 20 seconds sooner, how much CO2? No, that can't be your question. That's a ridiculous question. Okay, okay. Well, how much CO2? What you talking about? No, no, because you can work it out. Like, you can. You just want to know why kettles boil for longer than they should. That's a question we can work with. We can't work with how much CO2 is created by. You could. You could work that out. You could. Somebody could. Also, how much is the capacity of your kettle? Okay, well, it's like the standard. Is it more than a pint? Five. Oh, yeah, it's more than a point. So the thing what turns off the kettle is going to be determined by the boiling of a full kettle. I think it's something called, like a Mobius strip or something like that. There's a strip inside the kettle. It's a bimetallic strip, like a. Right, isn't it? It reaches a certain temperature and then it clicks and that breaks the circuit. And the kettle. Where does this stuff come from? This is incredible. But the thing is, I'm almost certainly wrong. Now, hang on, I haven't finished being wrong yet. So the thing is. The thing is that if your kettle isn't full, then it's going to have to boil for longer in order to heat up the bimetallic strip. So if you've got a half full kettle, it may well be boiling for 20 seconds longer than seems sensible, because the bimetallic strip is tuned, if you like, to a full kettle. I think I've gone and solved it. Right. But is there not a way of then the kettle manufacturers making a kettle that you buy a smaller kettle and saving? Well, I'm not really. It's just overboil. I think. I've done a physics quest. I've done a physics. Put it this way, say the kettle's full. Yeah. And it still would over boil the water. No, it wouldn't, though. I think it would. But you haven't done any experiments on that, have you? Oh, no, I haven't done my homework. You haven't done your homework? I've needed to ask this for such a long time. We have to get something out there. It's unsatisfactory. It has to boil for a little bit longer than 20 seconds. Yeah, but that's because it's not full. How many times do I have to tell you? Basic physics. No, no. Okay, I appreciate that, but in this day and age, where we put men on the moon, can they not make a kettle that can counteract that? Technically, we didn't put men on the moon in this day and age. Yesterday and age. No, a smaller kettle. So the real, I think. I don't know. I'm going to put your question on the board and I've enjoyed talking to you. I've got guess. I've got guess and I've got to boil the kettle twice. Yeah, no, I am understand all of that, but I think the answer has been provided. I sense your lack of satisfaction, therefore I'm going to leave it on the board and I'm not going to claim my rightful round of applause. You know the young lady I spoke to who put me through? She said to me, I've always thought the same thing. She's like, this is not helping your case. This does not help. This does not help your case. I know the young lady who just put you through, and her nodding along with your nonsense does not in any way dilute the nonsensical nature of your nonsense. But, James, these are the small things we need to get to the bottom of to save the planet. I agree, I agree, I agree. But I do think actually you've made a very powerful case for people manufacturing smaller kettles. And I wonder why they don't. There may well be a reason, but the question is, why does Matt's kettle, which isn't full, why does it boil for about 20 seconds before it turns itself off, when clearly I know all kettles do? It's not just Matt's kettle, otherwise it wouldn't be on mystery hour, would it? It clearly is boiling for 20 seconds more than what it needs to, to heat up the water. What is in it? But it's not full. Which is, I think, the answer. But then again, the smugger I get in dismissing the nonsensical nature of questions, the more embarrassed I end up when someone rings in with the actual correct response. 13 minutes after twelve is the time Carol is in Hinckley. Carol, what would you like to say? Hello, James. Nice to talk to you. We're touring the smaller towns of Leicestershire at the moment. Earl Chilton's just up the road from Hinckley, isn't it? Indeed, yes. Look at that. Small world. Carry on. Well, I've had a question now for at least a year that I've been meaning to phone up about. I'm a gardener and I've got an allotment and I love fresh peas. Yeah, when you try and get the peas out of the pod, you've got the devil of a job to get them out, haven't you? You do, yes. They don't come out very easily. Well, they're attached. Pardon? They're attached inside the pod. Exactly. There's a sort of umbilical pea. It can be a tricky job, that. Quite thick, those shells, those pods, those carapaces. So how do the manufacturers do hundreds and thousands of pea pods to make those big bags of frozen peas that you can buy? So just the manufacturing process. Yeah, but production, what is that manufacturing process? How do they get individual pod and crack it open without squishing the peas? That's a lovely question. I can't wait to find out the answer. But you remind me of a very, very, very early mystery owl that I had completely forgotten. And it involves someone asking a similar question about prawns, believe it or not, because, of course, peeling a prawn is a very fiddly job. And yet you can buy big bags of frozen prawns. And the answer, remarkably, involved high pressure hoses. Little tiny high pressure hoses. So the prawn is on a sort of spiky conveyor belt, so it's lodged on a spike of some sort, and they blast water at it at such a high speed that it just blows the shell clean off. Wow. Well, maybe they do the same for peapod. Seems unlikely, but you never know. Do you know why I remember that? Because the bloke who rang in to ask it stopped me in the street about two years later to thank me for the satisfaction we'd provided him. Yes, I know, famous prawn based in. Quite right. We'll do the same for what we've done for prawns, Carol. We will do for peas. Thank you so much, James. I've got to go now because it's starting to hail. Get indoors, quick. No. Crikey, 1215 is the time. The weather yesterday. She mentions hail got caught up. Anyway, I don't think we're quite that desperate for material yet, are we, Keith? It is 1215, mystery hour with James O'Brien, this is LBC. 90 minutes after twelve. That kettle question is going to run and run. Sooner we answer that, the better. I suspect other questions in need of answers involve babies, kneecaps and indeed the absence of what you and I would recognize. I never clock this and I have children. Unbelievable. Keith was the fan of all knowledge on this. The rest of us didn't know if it was true or not. He goes, no, definitely, definitely. Baby's born without bony kneecaps. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. If you can answer that, or indeed the kettle question, then you know what to do. The number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 Rebecca is in Rochester. Rebecca, question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Carry on. So, I am a mum of two boys. I've got one in the background. Ten months. Crikey. And I've got a nearly six year old. Yes. Yeah, I know. Right. Obvious. So babies are in fact born with cats, but what they have is just cartilage. So the purpose of the cartilage, I think. Well, my understanding is that it. Sorry, I'm really nervous. That's only me. What are you nervous about? You've got a ten month old baby on your lap. I'd be worrying about that if I were you. Sorry. So it allows. Oh, sorry. 1 second. This is not how I thought I'd make my debut. No, but it is live and no one can argue otherwise. So the process of the kneecaps forming. Yes. My understanding is that it takes between the orders of two to fix and the cartilage hardens into bone. Exactly. Why. Why are they born without bony kneecaps? What's the benefit? What's the evolutionary benefit? I think it's to aid them with their movement. They're crawling, so they're more flexible and bendy. I had a friend who told me that babies are like plastic or like rubber, so if you drop them. Not that I recommend it. Steady on, steady on. This is escalating, isn't it? I'm not surprised. He doesn't like the sound of that one bit, does he? Let's not put that to the test. Yeah. My understanding is that it's just to assist them with their movement and their crawling and then the bone hardens. Okay, I'm gonna. That's a lovely answer. I'm gonna give you a round of applause, partly just to get rid of you before things get. Before. It's only because of the noise in the background. Just say really quickly before you chuck me off. I'm a massive fan. You've accompanied me during three maternity leaves over the last seven years, and if you keep up the good work, you'll be doing a sort of favour. Oh, that's a lovely thing to say. And I was already gonna give you a round of applause. If I wasn't, would now. There you go. Bye, Bruce. Thank you, Rebecca. And take care, both of you. There may still be room, though, on that one, because I think it makes sense. But as Rebecca conceded herself, it's more of a speculation, an informed guess, than an actual scientific response. So 22 after twelve is the time. Simon is in Knoxford in Cheshire. Simon, question or answer? How are we doing? Carry on. It's about the kettle. I have rang you before to do about. Yes, this was many, many years ago. Yeah, a few years. And you got. You got a round. You got a ray Liotta. Yeah. As you were actually speaking. I'm actually working on a kettle at the moment. She's gonna do it again. Let's get to the end first. Let's find out. Okay, the question about why boils on. Well, the way that most kettles work is there's a steam tube. You'll see this. Either the steam tube is visible in the kettle, like, I've got a glass one in front of me. You'll see a steam tube going right to the top. Yes. Or there's a hole in the top of the kettle where the steam has. Once it boils, the steam builds up and it goes down this steam tube to a bimetallic strip at the bottom. And that's what switches the kettle off. Now, if you have another type of system, you can have electronic systems where it works in a different way from sensors. And in that case, like, we have very high end kettles, they would sense it boiling without having to go through the process of going through a steam tube. So the delay that Matt was asking about is caused essentially by the passage of time for the steam to make its way. So my theory about the kettle take, when it's half full, the steam has got more, has to build up more. Yes. So I was completely right before it even goes down the tube, to get to the bimetallic strip, to switch bimetallic strips as well. I was completely 100% right. Right. I'm taking the round of applause. Don't worry about it, though. We'll be back in a second round. Applause for me. I was completely right. Even bimetallic strips is pretty much all I remember from physics. That's absolutely incredible. Car indicators were the example we always used in school for bimetallic strips. But I digress. Simon, what are your qualifications? I'm an industrial designer and I design kettles, toasters for Russell Hobbs. What I have done in the past and I do it for other companies at the moment. Unbelievable. I think you are the example I use quite often when I tell people you've not used it for a while. Actually, I was a bit upset. I've been coming back with a vengeance now because Keith, who only came to work in radio because of mystery hour, but he was going to be a superstar DJ, but he fell in love with speech radio as a result of listening to mystery out. He's nodding along. I often say, for example, if there's a question about toasters and you design or invent toasters, then you get a Ray Liotta. And here we are with kettles. I mean, is there not an element of the mythical meeting in razor blade factories where someone says, I've got a great idea, lads, let's do 6th place this year, and everybody hails it as a rev. I mean, how much more improvement can a kettle take? There's a lot more. I mean, years ago we were designing kettles that worked off your Wi fi so you could, you know, turn them on and off from any room. And also, I think I've actually designed a kettle that gets around a lot of this. I designed a kettle that has a hopper at the top and basically you can fill that hopper with one cup and then dispense it into the kettle and then it's the most efficient sort of boiling. You do it a cup at a time? Yes. Who did you design that for? Russell Hobbs. So Matt needs to check out the Russell Hobbs catalog and equip himself with a more efficient kettle designed by Simon in Knoxford. Shame you can't sign them. I've done that before. Have you? For family only. Oh, this one's one of mine. I love that. I love it. Do you ever get really snobby and dismissive about it when you round at other people's houses and you go, I can't believe you're using that? Well, yeah, I'll tell you what one of my favorite pastimes is. This might sound a bit weird, but I like standing in stores like, say, like John Lewis or whatever, Dyers, and listening to people talking about the appliances, which one they're going to buy. I always go, actually, I think this one is quite good. I've used it before, but that is basically the best thing is listening to people or seeing people, even having your product in a. In a soap opera, say, for example, in the background, of course. That's another good thing. Simon, it's great to talk to you again. In many ways, you're one of the patron saints of mystery. Ow. Thank you very much. And you get another one of these with knobs on. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Thank you very much, James. Thank you for keeping going through working at home. Hang on, mate. You invent kettles. I think you've done more for the good of the nation during lockdown than I have. I just provide the soundtrack, you provide the drinks. 26 minutes after twelve. What a lovely moment. I do enjoy mystery. Tim's in Tunbridge. Tim, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Tim. In what century did Italians start eating spaghetti? I think, believe it or not, I think it came from China. So we'd be looking at Marco Polo. So what century was Marco Polo? 9th. I'm not going to lie to you, that didn't drip with authority the way that you said 9th. It could be, but I think I'd be surprised if that's not the answer because somewhere in my memory banks I've got the noodle spaghetti relationship filed away. And I presume that Marco Polo would have brought back the recipe from. It's later than the 9th, isn't it? Yeah. Why didn't they have spaghetti in Renaissance paintings, then? That's not what you ask. No, I'm just saying if it was a food. That's easy. I know that as well. God knocking them out because it's really hard to paint. What would you. What would you rather paint? A bowl of spaghetti or a chicken? Maybe a combination of the two. Yeah, but imagine if it's got sauce on it. Imagine a carbonara. You'd be there all day. You need really tiny brushes, a nice big loaf of bread. Bob's your uncle. There you go. Michelangelo, give him another loaf of bread. We're having a spaghetti. No chance. I can't paint spaghetti. Who do you think I am, Leonardo da Vinci? I'm going to believe it on the board, but only because I can't remember. I think he was 14th. 13th century? 14. Set. Marco Polo. But it may not be the answer, but it's a lovely question. 28 minutes after twelve's the time Tony's in Highbury. Question or answer, Tony. Question, please, James. Carry on, Tony. James, can a person, a police person. Yes. Actually still legally commandeer a vehicle if they are pursuing a criminal. Pursuing a criminal? Can they? I think we've done this before and I think the answer is yes, but I will. Okay, mate. Right. No, no, I'm going to leave it on the board, because I have just imagined the whole thing. I was just thinking, I saw the french connection the other day. I know. That's in America. Yes. I mean, nowadays they'd have all the pursuit vehicles and the CCTV and the helicopters, but if none were available and a policeman was standing next to you and you parked somewhere with the keys of the initial and he saw a bank job, could he say, quick, get out? I'm having this goal for her, of course. And because a lot of these conventions weren't actually ever legal, they were just accepted. Like, it's still illegal to go through red lights, but it's accepted. But I would. Well, it's not. Yeah, I suppose the question is, can they? Yeah. I mean, copper will know, weren't they? It's fairly straightforward. I mean, ideally, we want someone that's done it. That would be great. Would you imagine that? That would be pretty cool. Or someone who's had it done to them might be even better. Probably rarer to find someone whose car has been commandeered in the. In the pursuit of criminals. Oh, yeah. Zero, three, four. I mean, we set the bar high today with Simon in Oxford. So let's. Let's aim. Let's aim for the stars. Zero. 345-606-0973 12:30 is the time. Thomas Watts has the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 34 is the time. How do you industrially shell peas? If you're just tuning into the program and you haven't listened before, this isn't necessarily normal. For us, it is on Thursdays, especially on election days. How does it work? How do you industrially shell peas? To do them by hand is, as our caller Carol pointed out, rather tricky. So what is the process? Maybe it's done by hand, I don't know. Tiny hands you'd need. Which takes us back to the conversations we were having about Donald Trump in the first couple of hours of the program. Can police commandeer cars? What are the rules and regulations? Ideally, you will have personal experience of it if you're going to answer in the affirmative. And when did the Italians start eating spaghetti? We've done the other two, including our first Ray Liotta of the day, which was a treat. 1234 is the time Sarah is in Bromley. Sarah, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So, following on from the police theme with reference to the line of duty, specifically, I wanted to ask why, when interviewing suspects, does the bleep at the start of the recording last so very long? How long does it last? About 10 seconds, I reckon. What, and they played out the whole thing on the telly. They did? Yeah. 10 seconds is longer than you realize. I know. So say 7 seconds. Okay, I'm gonna do a seven second beat now. Are you ready? Okay, go on. Hang on. I'm just gonna wait till it comes. Beep. That's about right. That was 7 seconds. Wasn't that long. All right, 6 seconds. It's interrupted the viewing. Yeah, all right. I mean, I presume, though I might be, to prove that it hasn't been tampered with or it acts like a junction. So when you're doing telly, sometimes you have to, you know, the clapper boards that you see for ease. No, but that. That's for ease of editing, isn't it? It wouldn't be that. It's a really good question. It's a really good question. And I love the way you pretend that you saw it on the telly rather than drawing upon your long and frequent experience of being interviewed by the police. Sarah, you thought you got away with that one, didn't you? I thought I did, yeah. Crikey, it's on the COVID You're among friends here. Don't you worry. We shall find out for you. Has any police officer ever commandeered a car when chasing you? No, they haven't. Well, they might have done, but who knows? They didn't catch me. Yeah, thankfully. Fingers crossed we're okay. Thank you. That's a nice question. Why is it so long? I would say it was probably 5 seconds after conducting that live experiment on the radio. I don't know if you watch House of games, that the Richard Osmond tv show that has become one of my all time favorites. But the only round I can't even begin to get close on is when they. You have to. It goes silent. They play the opening to a song and then it goes silent. And you have to kind of play the song in your head and work out where the vocal kicks in. Absolutely no clue whatsoever. It's an embarrassment. But I do know, because of what I do for a living that these periods of time that we use to express shortness are actually in the moment much longer than you'd realise. 1237, William's in Purley. William, question or answer? What's a question, James? Carry on, William. Well, I was just wondering if the queen and Prince Charles and Prince William all sort of suddenly died this year, if Prince George would be crowned king of England, because he's always the same age as Henry III and Edward VI when they were crowned king of England. Yes, I presume he would, but with a. I mean, in the same way that happened with Henry III was 13th century and 16th century. It was a long time ago. I just wonder if it still works that way. Yeah, I don't know for sure, but, I mean, there'd be a regent involved, wouldn't there? So you or not a regent, a councillor, you know, is it called. No, it's not a regent. Is it a regent? I can't. Anyway, we'll find out. It's a morbid question, but it's the theory that we're interested in. If Prince George were to suddenly become in line to the first in line to the throne, as in, it's his throne, would he be crowned in the 21st century in the same way that he would have been in the 16th? I've got. Are you still there, William? You sound like. Yeah, well, the thing is. The thing is, James, if this all happened in the next few weeks, it actually a pair of short trousers, because there's some rule that royal boys aren't allowed out of shorts until they're eight years old. He won't be eight till July, so it might alarm the 70 million people in this country and 53 countries in the commonwealth that the head of state is now a boy in short trousers. Is that a thing? That's not true about being eight before you're allowed out of short? Well, I read it on the Internet, so you can't trust everything about the Internet, but that's what I read. There's an interesting piece of trivia about Henry III. I can't remember what it is, can you? He's King John's son, isn't he? And he was crowned King Renwu's nine. That's quite interesting, isn't it? No, it wasn't that. I can't remember what it was. Was he the. No, it'd be too long ago for that. Anyway, in the wars. He was involved in those wars, the Boswell wars or something. It doesn't matter. It's just me burbling out loud. Top man, William. Thank you. Nice question. 1239 is the time, so I presume. I can't see any reason why it wouldn't happen, but albeit that you have a. I don't know why I've got the word regent in my mind. I don't think that's the right word. Ian's in slough. Ian. Question or answer? That answer. Carry on. Ian. In relation to the high pitched noise at the start of an interview with the police? Yes. So that's actually really old fashioned. It's from when the police used to use tapes rather than CDs to record on. Yes. The reason that it's there is when the tapes use are brand new and wrapped and sealed, they're opened up and put into the recorder. When you press record, the high pitch beep is there to make sure that you don't miss the start of the recordable part of the tape. Yeah, that little. God, that takes me back. When you were doing your mixtapes, you'd had that little bit of clear tape, didn't you, on the spool before it got to the black bit, the brown bit that actually recorded. That's it. The reason for that noise is so the interviewing officers know that they can start speaking and they don't miss that section of the interview on the. On the recording. Brilliant answer. Why would they still be using it on the telly then if it doesn't get used in. In real life? That I have no idea. We've been. The police have been using DVD's to record interviews for years now. Quite a lot of people are saying it's because I haven't watched line of duty. I keep saving it and never getting around to watching it. Just this series. I've watched all the others, but quite a few people are saying that Jeb Mercurio, the writer, uses it as a dramatic device, as it is actually a sort of recurring meme or theme in the drama, which would make sense, wouldn't it, if it's not actually accurate? Yeah, absolutely. So it's not in use anymore. Qualifications? I'm a police officer. Ever commandeered a vehicle? No. You could have gone double there, but you get a round of applause. No, I've never heard of that at all. That's perfect. I love that answer. David's in Bracknell. David, question or answer? If it's me you're talking to, I'm not in Bracknell. I'm in Sunningdale. No, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the other David. It's just that I'm talking to the David in Bracknell. No. Can you be quiet? David in Sunningdale. I'm trying to talk to David in Bracknell. It's the area. Yes. No. Well, it might be. Well, I'm glad we've cleared that up. Right. Question or answer? It's about the. Who would become king or queen? Yes. It would be Prince Andrew. Really? Yes. Well, he'd be crowned king. Yes. If Prince, for example, if Prince Charles was to die before the queen. Yes. Then the next in line is actually Prince Andrew. It's based on a generation. You can't skip a generation. Prince Andrew would have to abdicate. I just think this is wrong. It becomes rather complicated. But it is actually Prince Andrew. Well, I mean, for a start, haven't they changed the rules of succession so that men no longer assume priority? Who's older, Andrew or Anne? No, I don't. I don't believe so. No, they have. I know, but it's not retrospectively. Well, no, nor is this. No, I think you'll find I'm not. I'm almost 99% certain. Okay. Well, I mean, those are. Those are. Those are big odds. Well, what qualifications do you think that you're drawing on? I've heard it before. I've read it. I was a member of the royal Warrant Holders association. I'm a constitutional monarchist member, etcetera, etcetera. Okay, so there are circumstances in which Prince William could be alive and Prince Andrew would become king. Yes. Well, I'm calling shenanigans. Well, Prince William, for example, would only become king if Prince Charles was king first. Right. So if Prince Charles predeceases the queen, the next in line of succession is Prince Andrew. Well, listen, every time I condescendingly describe somebody on mystery hour as being completely and utterly wrong, history suggests that I may end up having to have a fat slice of humble pie at some point subsequently. But I think I am more than 90. I'm 99.9% certain that you're completely and utterly wrong. Well, I hope you enjoy the pie. Well, do you know what? Sheila Fogarty has just weighed in on your side, apparently. So you better get the mic microwave stoked up and we'll see what happens subsequently. I'll tell you what, though, I'm sweating at the prospect of Prince Andrew becoming king, and I bet I'm not the only. 112 44 is the time. Well, it's all to play for now. Lee's in Woolwich. Lee, question or answer? Oh, question, please carry on. I. Once you kind of got me by surprise there. Did you ring into the radio station? Were you put on hold? Were you put on hold prior to making it onto air? I was put on hold at ten to twelve. So I just wasn't expecting that. No, fair enough. Actually, that's a decent enough answer. The queues are so long there because the switchboard's so full. Question. Can you remember what your question is? I can remember my question. Okay, so my question is, how are the antibodies that we produce in our bodies different to the antibodies that you get from taking the COVID vaccine? And the reason this has come about is because I work in healthcare and a lot of me and my friends were talking about, you know, ages ago when we first got COVID-19 before the vaccine was available. And once we got it, we were kind of all told that we were in the clear now and that we wouldn't really get it that bad again because we already had the antibodies. So they do. They wear out. I mean, the antibodies go down. So with the passage of time, I'm not even sure they are different in some senses, but I have no science whatsoever in this field, so I'll find out for what's the difference between the antibodies that you generate in response to having the virus and the antibodies? What are generated in response to having the vaccine? Zero three, four, five six. Zero six. Zero nine seven, three. Twelve. Forty five. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. How do you shell peas industrially, given that it's so hard to do domestically? Who would assume the throne in the event of her Majesty the Queen and Prince Charles and Prince William perishing? Who would become king? There's some controversy on this, which. Well, you live and learn. It's like babies and kneecaps. When did spaghetti arrive in Italy? Or when did Italians start eating spaghetti? And can police commandeer cars? Pete's in Stratford. Pete, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Can police come and do vehicles? I'm a police officer and I did it two weeks ago to a bin Laurie. Shut up. Yep. Sorry, officer, I didn't mean to speak rudely to a member of her Majesty. Why would you commandeer a bin Laurie? You're not going to catch anything in a bin Laurie. It was the only vehicle available and I thought it'd be quicker than running. No. You're making this up. No, straight up. How can you prove it? I can't. What were you. Who were you chasing? Keith just said rubbish, by the way, when you said bin Laurie, but I think that was more a joke than an accusation. It's quite a good joke, actually. Who were you chasing? Some guy we went to arrest and he started jumping fences and I needed to get the other side of a large block of buildings and it was about half a mile, so decided I'd have the bin lorry. And did the bin lorry driver drive it or did you? The bin lorry driver drove it and even put his orange lights on. Did he make the papers? No. Should have done. And this was in Stratford? It was in east London or in Stafford? In Stratford upon Avon. Which Stratford east London. I can't believe it. Didn't make the papers. What did you say? Uh, can you take me here? And he said, yep, jump in. Thanks. Were you in uniform? I was. Well, I mean, what happens if he said no? Well, I didn't wait for a bun because, commandeer, I don't know if you're allowed to say, we got to hurry up, but this is really fascinating. I'm going to give you a round of applause because I just. It's unlikely, that's all. It's an amazing. Doesn't happen very often because of the insurance aspect. If they have an accident. Good Lord. Yeah. Who would be liable? Did you catch the crim? Unless it run. He got away. I mean, I don't want to cast aspersions on your decision making processes, PCP, but you probably would have been better off on foot than you were commandeering a bin, Laurie. I wouldn't have been able to ring you. Did he make a clean getaway? Sorry? Have a Ray Liyota. If you honestly did it, then you deserve it. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Thank you. Thank you. Carry on. Stay safe. Thank you for all you do. You better not be yanking my chain. You'd brought the whole force into disrepute. Chris is in St Helens. Chris, question or answer? Answer, please. James. Carry on. Chris. It's three wheeler. Peas in a pod. Carry on. So the way it's done is usually you get a bolt delivery and then it gets conveyed up into the hopper of a machine. It gets gravity fed. Yeah. And then it lands on more or less what's basically a sieve. And then, depending on the type of machine, you either have blades or belts that run in opposing directions and it creates. Once the pods come into contact with them. Yeah. Because they're going in opposing directions and because of friction. Friction, isn't it? It just pops it open and then the peas fall through the holes. The peas fall through the holes and the shells don't. Because they're big. Exactly. And then the peas are blown by up until silos for batch processing. Are there units that can do it in the field? I don't know. I've only ever done inside industrial factories. What are your qualifications? I wrote the software for a few of the machines. One of those days. Today you wrote the software for machines that shell peas? Yes. I'm an industrial automation engineer. And you were listening to the radio today when someone rang in and said, how do industrial pea shellers work? You have no idea how long I've waited for this previous company. I've done loads, loads of factories, process engineering. But I finally found one where, you know, bang on the money and we get our hat trick as well. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Thank you very much. We get you and Simon together. He does the hardware, you do the software. We could take over the world. The toasters at the minute. Mind blowing yourself. It's 1250. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Susan is an Inverness. Susan. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on about the antibodies to the vaccines. Lovely. Virus particles used in vaccines are not complete viruses. So the antibodies that are stimulated will be specific to certain parts of the virus. If you have been exposed to a live virus in the environment, then you will make the same antibodies as the ones that the virus stimulates. But you will also make antibodies to other parts of the virus. So, for instance, hepatitis B vaccine stimulates antibodies against the surface antigen. Whereas if you have hepatitis B infection, you will make antibodies against the surface antigen, the core antigen and the envelope antigens. So, in effect, your own immune system makes a broader range of antibodies. But the. The purpose of the vaccine, or the vaccine makers, is to select a relevant antigen that will help you clear the virus from your system as soon as you are exposed to it. Qualifications? I think I know, don't I? I worked for 33 years in the blood transfusion service. We used vaccines. We collected. How many rounds of applause have you had? Now, drawing upon your professional two. Ray Liotta. You don't get word. Don't get a ray Liotta today, do you? Oh, shame. I was hoping for my hatchet. Because, you know, the answer is brilliant. But you do get one of these. I scam. Scant compensation, I guarantee. Thank you, Susan. Ben's in Haringey. Ben, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Ben. It's about the spaghetti. Spaghetti. It's a very interesting question, because it's one of those questions where we don't really know. But it sort of starts with the early Romans. Really? So way before Marco Polo, then? Yes, but it is a very common theory and it's actually a very interesting theory because. Patronize me, why don't you? On my own radio show. Very interesting theory, James, but completely flipping wrong. He did reinvigorate the sort of resurrected the pasta industry. Marco Polo. So what are your qualifications? I'm going to run out of time. I've got to read out a statement from the home office. If I talk quicker, maybe I'll be able to squeeze more in. Oh, it's. I am working on a YouTube channel focusing on ancient food and its origins. What's the channel called? It's going to be called inter burner, but it's not live yet. I'm still early. Give us a call when it is, we'll give you a shout. I love that. Round of applause for Ben. Statement from the Home Office. In response to Carl's story earlier. He says, we are. The spokesperson says, we are determined to right the wrongs of the Windrush generation and make sure they get the compensation and support they deserve for the injustices they face. Mister Carl N Wizoto is a british citizen. He has not made a claim under the Windrush compensation scheme to date. The Windrush compensation scheme is open to individuals, including close family members of eligible claimants, where there is evidence of certain direct financial losses or significant impact on their life. 1257 Thoms in Watford. Question or answer? It's an answer to the commodore of a vehicle. Yes. I don't do the way around. I actually commandeered a policeman's vehicle once. That's not commandeering, that's stealing. No, no, no. He was actually driving it. And I witnessed a hit and run accident. Yes. And I'm on the phone to the police, I'm watching this guy run off the accident, and I opened the passenger door of this car, said, follow that bus. The guy had hopped on the bus and made off. Oh, you didn't commandeer the vehicle, you got in it. Yes. But then the guy. The plea, it was tond out. The guy's car was a policeman off duty. And we got talking and he said, the only way they can accommodate a vehicle is if there was life in danger. Okay, that'll do. Have a round of applause. I'm running out of time. Ben's in seven oats. Ben, question or answer? An answer. Jane, very briefly, if you would. Sheila Fogarty is itching to talk to you. Yeah. So in terms of who would inherit the throne. If Charles or Charles and Williams died, it would be George. It never goes to a sibling if there's an heir. No, it would. There's a set line of succession. So for Andrew to inherit, both William and Harry and all of their children would have to die. That is the line of succession, isn't it? Yes. And it's odd how Eugenie and Beatrice are surprisingly high up it, but not high up enough to change qualifications. I worked the royal household. Oh, I. So I worked at the Buckingham palace ticket office and we were given information. Spoilt it now, I thought you were like the third. The third equerry to the left, not a ticket office fella. There's nothing wrong with that. But you're given all the training in case people ask you questions. Yeah, yeah. Round of applause for Ben. If I had a bugle, I'd blow it. But I don't. I can't. I do, however, have to play this because my producer bullies me if I don't, which simply means that we dealt with every single question on mystery hour this week. Here's Sheila Fox. But did we? What, you're not happy with the queen? You're the monarchist in this. Well, I'm not claiming I know for sure, but I have a heebie jeebie about that one. Really, I do. Ben did work in the ticket office. He did work in the ticket office and I never did. But I'm not going to be talking about that this afternoon. But it's all I can think about. It's all I can think about. I've already dmed two constitutional experts to try. Yeah. Anyway, my bet is there's space for a fight. Not between you and me, but between Andrew and whoever, if it ever happened, Queen Victoria's uncles for detail. It's all happening. Thank you, James. I'm not going to be talking about the royals this afternoon. I am going to be talking about the UK economy and your place in it. The UK economy, we are told just in the last hour from. The bank of England is about to enjoy its strongest growth since World War Two this year, as COVID-19 lockdown restrictions are lifted. Goldman Sachs today, coincidentally, have told their staff to be back in the office by June. But will you. Will you still be working from home June, July, August, September onwards? Maybe permanently? Let me know if your office has given you any indication about what they expect. And what do you think of the decision that they have made? We will, of course, look at what's happening in Jersey. Jersey officials meeting french fishermen will talk to one of those officials. And I'm going to return to a subject James talked about as well, Donald Trump's rights online on your radio on global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.