James O'Brien's Mystery Hour - 14 Jul 16

Visit bt.com smarthub to find out more UK's most powerful Wi Fi signal versus major broadband providers. To verify, go to bt.com smarthub. Performance varies by our position. This is lBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. It's four minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We will launch mystery hour imminently. But before that, I wanted some reaction to what I think we thought was going to be a reduction in base rates. It is, as you heard in the news, confirmed now that interest rates are to remain at 0.5%. Brenda Kelly is an independent market and analyst who's been preparing all morning. I think it's fair to say, Brenda, to respond to a different announcement from the bank of England. Is this one taking you by surprise? Well, ever so slightly. I mean, there were parts of me thinking he did say that he would possibly come about with a rate cut over the summer. He still has two months left to do it. I mean, at the end of the day, how much good will actually really do at this moment in time? You've seen the pound actually rally on the back of the lack of movement from the bank of England, currently trading around 133 70 against the US dollar. But, you know, a 50% basis cost, or even two installments off the 25 basis points would very, do very little to the broader economy. Rather, instead it would just devalue the currency further. And while that's good in the short term, I think over the medium term, I think the pound has already had a fairly significant depreciation in recent weeks. So he's probably just, you know, hopefully holding back on some of the ammunition. So this is a wait and see. This is a wait and see moment, then? I think so. And certainly with a little bit more stability in the UK government, or so it would seem, I think, you know, it is clear cuts are on the way, but he has to use them sparingly. And as I said, there's very little ammunition left in the bank of England, so they'll have to use it when. When necessary, rather than, I suppose, preempting any additional shocks to the economy. Indeed. And the reasoning prior to this actual announcement was that making borrowing even cheaper would somehow stimulate spending, because, you know, if we're paying less on our mortgage, we've got more in our pocket at the end of the month to go out shopping with, or even if we're making purchases on credit, it would be easier. But but that is not the path that Connie's chosen to go down, not just yet. Now, certainly we have seen surveys that show a softening of house price expectations, and that would lead you to believe that the monetary policy committee will likely ease, ease policy. Nevertheless, you know, I think it's just a matter matter of, as you said, waiting and seeing and seeing how the next few months come out. We have to see what Brexit actually means at this particular point, and I think it'll be foolhardy at the bank of England to act too quickly. Brenda Kelly, many thanks. Independent market analysts responding to news. If it is, does it count as news when nothing's changed? Of course it does. News that the bank of England base rate will remain at 0.5%. Now, a little later than usual, but better late than never. It's time for this. This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC seven minutes after twelve. If you're one of the many people who have been tuning in a little bit more than usual, and in many cases for the very first time to hear our coverage of the political landscape at the moment, you're in for a bit of an unexpected treat. This is a weekly feature that ranks among by far the most popular on the station. The podcast routinely appears in the believe it or not in the comedy charts on iTunes, and it comes with guarantees that you don't find anywhere else on your radio dial by 01:00 today. You will, I promise, know more than you do now. You will have more knowledge than you do now, and you will also laugh out loud on at least one occasion. I've never, ever had to pay refunds on those two guarantees. Whether the knowledge is any use to you at all, and quite what you laugh at, God only knows. But those are the guarantees, and they're golden. The way it works is this. There will be lurking in the darker recesses of your mind, a mystery in need of a solution, a question in need of an answer. You know how it works in the newspapers. Readers write in and say, why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? Who, why? What, where, when, whither, whence, and even the occasional wherefore. Well, here it happens live, and it happens immediately. It is the most interactive of media, even though it's among the oldest, and we call it misunderstood, simply because we spend about an hour solving mysteries. If you've got one. The number you need remains, as ever on this program, zero 345-606-0973 if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. Repetition and dullness are our only enemies. Repetition is not your responsibility, although you can go to LBC dot co dot UK to find out whether or not the question has been asked before there's a mister hour archive. Dullness is very much our problem. Dullness is very much in the ear of the beholder. So let me give you a little bit of guidance. If it's unlikely that anyone else is going to be interested in the answer to the question you ask, you'll probably be politely invited to move along on the grounds of Dullness. So the example I always use is a real one. Somebody once got through to ask where the exit on the roundabout near his house led, because it's got a no entry sign on it and he's always wondered where it leads. Now that I suppose there's a slight chance it might lead somewhere. Absolutely fascinating. But that to me was the distillation of dullness. It's a question of whether or not people who've never heard of the question you're asking before or even thought about it are going to the minute they hear it. Be interested in hearing what the answer is. That's not too complicated, is it? Anyway, it's my problem. Anyway, if it all goes wrong, nine minutes after twelve, mystery hour is upon us. Kevin is in Chatham. Kevin, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Kevin, let's do with the first and second world War. Oh, yes. After the first World War you had a memorial like the Tipval memorial, plus you had the british and allied graves that probably had stones on in the twenties and thirties when the Germans reoccupied France and the Low Countries. Did they respect the memorials and the graves? Because I've looked up in military history and I can't find anything about it as such. So the first world war memorials in areas that were occupied by the Germans. Yeah. What happened to. What happened to them? The memorials and the gravestones, did they respect the memorials and did they respect the graves of the fallen british and allied soldiers? Are they there now, the ones you're referring to? Yeah, you know, the ones that. No, I do. I just. I just wondering why you think they might not have respected them if they were there before? No, I don't know if there was an area where there were road troops that smashed them up or whether they did respect it as a whole. They did. But I'm never sure. No. Okay. I mean, it does seem as though they did because. Because they survived. But we don't know what may have perished or not survived. What attitude did the occupying second world War german soldiers take to the commemorations, the memorials and the graves that were left behind after the first World War? It's a lovely question, although I'm struggling to think of who might be able to answer it. We'll have a. We'll have an amateur professional historian listening. It's a great question there. I like it, Kevin, although you certainly set the bar high at the beginning of this week's mystery hour. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Nick is in Streatham. Nick, question or answer? Question. Carry on. If you've got your mum and dad, they're called parents, they are. Sisters are called siblings, sons and daughters are called children. What do you call a collective group of aunts and uncles? There isn't. There isn't one. Why not? Well, that's a different question. I'm not qualified to answer. We don't need one. Really? In what circumstances would they be a homogeneous group? Well, at weddings, these are my aunts and uncles. It's more efficient if there's just one word. No, it's not really, because they're not just aunts and uncles. At weddings, it's your mum's sister and your dad's brother in law. I mean, there's nothing uniting about them. Siblings are united by biology, parents are united by having children. Aunts and uncles aren't united by anything in the. In the same sense. That's why they don't have a collective noun. That's a shame. It is a shame. I mean, it's not the best question I've ever heard, but I'm gonna go give myself a round of applause for the quality of my answer. Well done. Thank you, Nick. Right, you know what? Now I've heard that round of applause, I feels a bit cheap, actually, to me, that I think. I think I let myself down there. Let mystery out. Down. I let. I let. I let Nick down. But most of all, I let myself down. Tony's in Norwich. Tony, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. Why do you get brain freeze when you eat something very cold? When you eat a lolly? Yeah. Or drink something very cold and it's sort of quite sporadic. Sometimes you get it, sometimes you don't. It's not just cold blood going into your brain. I don't think so. Well, I don't either. But, you know, I like to think out loud a bit on mystery. So you want the biological explanation of brain freeze? Yeah, yeah, all right. No, so I think we might have done that before, but I can't remember it. Say again? I've got a cure as well. If you push your tongue into the roof of your mouth, it takes it away, the pain goes. So it's all a bit weird, really. Well done, Tony. I like that. There's public service broadcasting at its finest. 1213 is the time, speaking in Norwich. Remember the story we covered last week about the shop that had been attacked on Magdalene street? There's some great stuff on the LBC Facebook page, if you. And have a look at the money that's been raised to help. And there's some footage of one of our reporters telling the woman who ran the shop that people had been donating on an incredible level. British. Lovely british values in play. Proper british values in play. They're responding to a racist attack upon a shop in Norwich. 1213 is the time. Joe is in Enfield. Joe, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Joe. It's the one with the memorials, graves. Yeah, well, the. Quite. The question was, did the occupying german soldiers in the Second World War respect the memorials and graves left behind for the allied soldiers after the First World War? Yes, correct. And what it is, it goes on a bit more to that. I don't know if you've ever. There was a film actually called Rome Open City. They made an agreement and I don't know what the name of the agreement was, where historical sites. And Rome obviously has many of them. They would be left untouched and undamaged. And also part of that was to, obviously, memorials, gravestones and things like that. But I don't know what the name of the agreement was, but I guess if it was me that had asked the question, I'd come back. Kevin did. I'd come back and say, how do we know that the Germans abided by that agreement during the Second World War? Well, I mean, you can see from what's left and what remained. I assumed, obviously there may have been some. Some Germans that didn't abide by the rules and regulations, but the general observation would have been that the. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I wouldn't be surprised if someone comes on not to challenge what you said, but to simply expand upon it. Okay, so round of applause. The history of Rome in the second World War, they made. There was a certain agreement that was. You've got a round of applause, though. Just take it. Take it to the bank. Seriously, cash it now. You don't need to. You don't know. No more flesh necessary on those bones past twelve throughout mystery hour. Obviously, this week I'm going to be bringing you news of any new appointments to Theresa May's cabinet. Gavin Williamson, not a politician that I'm particularly familiar with, has just been appointed chief whip. So we know, for example, that Justine Greening has got education. I can tell you that that brief has been expanded to include things that were not previously on her table. And Jeremy Hunt has just arrived at number ten Downing street. So, Crikey. If he does move from health, education's currently empty, but he is the man who stated very, very definitively that health would be his last big job in politics. I suspect we'll get news about Jeremy Hunt's fate before I hand over to Sheila Fogarty at 01:00. The time now is 1216 LBC. The Audi a four has many winning features, like the Audi smartphone interface that seamlessly integrates your phone with your car and that it's one on LBC. 20 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery era is upon us. But so, of course, is Theresa May's first cabinet. I can tell you Gavin Williamson has become the new chief whip. He's had a fairly meteoric rise. He's Scarborough Bourne, went to the local comprehensive school there, came out through local councils, arrived in parliament in 2010 and then was parliamentary private secretary to an astonishing succession of big hitters, culminating in being parliamentary private secretary to the prime minister, David Cameron. So Theresa May has had again plenty of opportunity to watch this chap in action. And his reward for that action is the chief whip job. He's a young man as well, 40 years old, a sort of dynamism, if you like, to the whip's office. That with a majority in the region's about twelve, isn't it? The majority. They're going to need a dynamism in the whip's office. Patrick McLaughlin, currently the transport secretary, is in Downing Street. Jeremy Hunt is in the environs as well. Developments as they occur, but mystery are in the background throughout. 21 minutes after twelve, Andy's at Brands Hatch. Andy, question or answer? Jose. Good afternoon. Question. Price of eggs. Where does that come from? Would you look at you for the price of eggs? I always thought it was. What's that got to do with the price of eggs? Well, grandparents used to say, my parents said it. Other parents said, it in what? In what context, mate? When would they say it? If I came in from the garden when I was a child, all covered in mud and bullets, they were looking at you for the price of eggs. Only if you were messy. Yes. So this is something you say. I've never heard the phrase before. I guess Kent and Kidderminster have different. Different dialect. So if you're, if you. If you're really messy, you say, look at you for the price of eggs in the same way you might say, look at the state of you. Yes, exactly. All right. I like that. I always thought price of eggs was like one of those, you know, what's that got to do with anything else? It's like, what's a bouncer? So look at you for the price of eggs. Come on, solve Andy's mystery. It's as old as he is. Zero. 345-606-0973 Shams is in the city. Shams. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. Ok. My daughter asked me on Sunday, with everything going on, news and about the economy, and that the pound is based on how well the economy's doing. Okay, that's been the case. I managed to get take it so far, but she asked me, well, why is the dollar one we get 1.1.4 at the time or whatever is 1.2 and the yen you get 147 for, because they've got stronger economies. So surely their currency should be worth more than ours. I try to explain historically, because we traded with. Historically it was by dollars and pounds sterling, etcetera, but I can only take it so far. So she then, in a belittling way, said, well, phone, phone your. James. Unfortunately, I can't answer the question myself, but I like the way that your daughter is already realizing that there is a higher authority to whom she can appeal when father has failed to step up to the plate intellectually. Unfortunately, I haven't got it in my fingertips either. So if. I mean, America has a stronger economy than ours, yeah. Why is. Why is. Why isn't the pound. Why don't we get less? Why don't we get. Doesn't. Isn't it all to do with when we started trading currencies? That's as far as I got with my daughter. Historical. But she said, but yet that explains the history. But not now, because surely the air economies have overtaken ours, which they have, and same as the japanese economies, they've overtaken our. So we should be getting less. How can we still be getting ¥140 for one one pound sterling? I think she's too clever for both of us. Your little. Because unlike you, it feels like there should be a really easy answer to this. But I don't know what it is. Exactly. Yeah, exactly. So can you give her a lamb bastion on the phone over the airways, please? No chance. Natasha. It sounds like a very wise girl. She must get it off her mum shams. So. Yeah. So if you could get the answer for me, that might save a bit of. I'll see what I can do. 24 minutes after twelve. Let's see if I understand the question first. The mouse of babes. The pound is worth more than the dollar or the yen. As in there's not parity. But their economies are better than ours. How come? So I guess you want really just an idiot's guide to currency exchange rate zero. 345-606-0973 I'll be the idiot, you'd be the guide. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. Just checking the breaking news. Teresa may continuing to form her government. No changes. Patrick McLaughlin's left Downing street transport secretary when he went in. We'll find out what he is when he came out. And I'm also hearing a rumor that Jeremy hunt staying at health. But that's just a rumor. And I said I wouldn't do rumors. Ellie's in Waltham Abbey. Ellie, question or answer? Question. Yes, I do. Snail rescue. When they're. When it rains and they're all on the pavement and in my garden and that to avoid me treading on them. But when I pick them up. Do you have a special outfit when you're rescuing snails? I bet you do. I bet you've got a special hat. Your snail rescuing hat. What are you doing this morning? Oh, I'm snail rescue patrol with Ellie in Waltham Abbey. It's a tv show. Get Channel five on line two. Get channel five on line too. We've got a television show to pitch. Snail rescue. Carry on, Ellie. There's crawl to tread on them. But I picked them up and not all of them but they bubble. It's like they're blowing bubbles. And I just wondered if I was either hurting them or upsetting them in any way or. You mean a little bubble on the bottom of the snail? Yeah. Coming out of the hole that the slime normally comes out of. Yeah. Well, I think it's because you, if you think about it normally there'd be no gap, would there? It would just go whole slime floor. But they don't all do it. No. Well you don't burp all the time. Do you, Ellie? Well, maybe you do, but I don't. Certainly don't. You don't. But you don't have wind. You don't have wind 24 hours a day, do you, Ellie? Yeah, but. No, I don't. No, I'm not. You're not having that. You don't. You don't think it's as snail flatulence. You're rejecting the snail flatulence theory. Indeed I am. I think that's your prerogative, Ellie. I shall find out. Why does some snails bubble when Ellie is on snail rescue patrol? Thank you so. No, thank you. If we get a deal with channel five, can I do the voiceover? Indeed you can. Thank you very much. I'd love you. I love you and your snail rescuing antics. Ellie. 1226 the time. Why do the snails at Elly rescue sometimes bubble low? 345-606-0973 we have done brain freeze before, but if you want to give us a quick explanation of what causes it, you can look at you for the price of eggs is a figure of speech apparently directed at scruffy people, especially children. Where does that come from? Look at you for the price of eggs. Maybe farmers would be covered in mud historically, and they would know the price of eggs, but that might be pushing it slightly. And the snail bubbles. Where are we going next? John's in cold and John, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why in the Olympics is it Team GB and not Team UK? You know, Ulster men and women are in the same team and they're part of the UK, not Great Britain. So why? Why is it that way? I may have misunderstood your question, but GB stands for Great Britain and Northern Ireland. No, GB is Great Britain. Yeah, but the full title is Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It's UK, United Kingdom and Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Oh, you're quite right, yes. Sorry. So what's the question again? Why is it team GB and not team UK? Okay. I don't know why team GB, not team UK? Because. Because Northern Ireland is included in GB and it's not part of GB. Yeah, okay. Northern Ireland is probably United Kingdom, not Great Britain. Okay. So it's on the list. I don't want to be rude. I don't know. I don't know that I'm as interested in that as I should be. I'll try and find out for you, though. Theo Ushered, our political editor is there with some more developments in Theresa May's first cabinet. Patrick McLaughlin went in as transport secretary. Theo, what did he come out as? And he's come out as the conservative party chairman and the chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Lancaster. So he will be able to attend cabinet. And it is. Mister McLaughlin is a known friend of Theresa May. They go way back. I was speaking to a source close to Mister McLaughlin just the other day and they were expecting him to get something. Although there was some question mark over whether he would stay as transport secretary. We're now looking to see who replaces him. Just a quick word on Gavin Williamson. Of course you mentioned James, that he was pps to David Cameron, very well respected by the Cameroons. George Osborne, Michael Gove who will be on the back benches and it will be very. We'll look to see how he marshals those marshals troops as chief whip. Very well organized and as you also say James, quite rightly young, 40 and only entered parliament in 2010. So it really is a meteoric rise because the reason his age is relevant and the reason he's only served six years in parliament is relevant is because he is taking the most commanding position in the House of Commons as chief whip to organise the government front benches, is in the House of Commons, at least in parliamentary terms, the most responsible job. Because when Theresa May will turn to him undoubtedly in her tenure, and say I want to implement a particular policy which is controversial, let's say they're proposing with a small majority of the moment with a small majority of just twelve and I'm thinking pointedly about what might be presented on the floor of the House in terms of a white paper on Brexit. It will be Mister Williamson's task to get everybody to sign up to that. To get everybody to sign up to that particular piece of legislation. And it will be. We'll watch with bated breath as to how he does. I'm hearing hunt staying. You certain on that? I'm going to get on to that. That's your start for ten. That's your next mission. Okay. Theo ushered hardest working man in London continues to put in a shift. On behalf of you and us here at LBc zero 345-606-0973 the number you need if you want to join mystery out. The time is 12:30. Rupert Bartier is here with the headlines. Michael Gove and Nicky Morgan have been sacked on LBC. 1234 is the time Theresa May's new cabinet taking ship. Patrick McLaughlin. As you heard in the news there is the new conservative party chairman. Chris Grayling of course is the old conservative party chairman and he is. We are still waiting to hear what his new role will be. He can expect a good one, I would have thought. But what is left on the list? Education is still vacant and transport is now as well. Of course, we're also waiting to hear what's happening with regard to health. The rumour is that Jeremy Hunt is staying, but the rumour was that he was leaving, so we'll have to wait and see what the reality turns out to be. Mystery underway. Questions in need of answers include the biological explanation of brain freeze, the etymological derivation of the phrase look at you for the price of eggs. Why do snails bubble when you pick them up? Sometimes? Why does our olympic team rejoice in the title team GB instead of team UK, which would be more accurate and explain currency to us? Why is the pound. Why do you get. Why do you get more dollars per pound, even though the american economy is bigger and better than ours at the moment? I hope I understand the question. It was Shams daughter Natasha who asked it. I got a horrible feeling she's cleverer than the rest of us put together. 1235 is the time. Liz Truss is at justice. Justin Greening is at education. Steve, meanwhile, is still in Watford. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, I'm afraid. And it's article 50. Try not to yawn. Once invoked, yes. Can we withdraw it? No. If so, is it unilateral or do we need once. Once you've pressed the button, you can't withdraw it. You can't? No. Okay. Thanks for the answer. You're very welcome. There's no solution, then. Thanks. Bye. Qualifications? Neck deep in it. Neck deep in it. For weeks it feels like Bob's in Guilford. Bob, question or answer? Question. Carry on. This is something you might be able to answer. Oh, you're very kind. You have great faith in me. I hope I repay it. You know, yesterday they were saying Teresa May's other. She's at 74th or 75th. Prime Minister. Crikey. Who was the first and how far. How far do we go back to, say, when we had our first prime minister? You know what? You're in luck. I do know this. Well, I thought you would. Well, I. Great faith you have in me. I'm very touched, Bob. Seriously. I wish my wife had such a high opinion of me. I assume it doesn't go back to 1066. You assume correctly. It goes back to 1721 or 221. I'll go for. But it might be 1721 and it was. Sir Robert Walpole was our first prime minister, in the modern sense of the word. So what was before him was it just. The king. You're only really allowed one question. But, I mean, you had lords of treasury, the king had a lot more power, you had lords of treasuries and sort of similar. The first recognized prime minister in british history was Sir Robert Walpole, who was. And this will really knock your socks off, Bob. The MP for King's Lynn. All right. And that's 1729. You said 21. I think it may be 22. He got elected more than once, but I think he first came in in 1721. I'm going to run that by my friends and see if they know. Ok, well, what do you mean, see if that's the correct answer, Bob. No, no, I do indeed. Oh, you mean see if they know as much as you do now? Pardon? You mean you're going to see if your friends know as much as you do now? Exactly. Especially my english friends, because I will tell them I'm foreign and I know this and they don't. Exactly. Well, be careful in the current climate. How you go about making that point, Bob. But I've got your back. I've got your back, my friend. So, Robert Walpole, 1721. Go and go and wow them with your historical knowledge and I will trouser my third round of applause. Why, thank you. Peter's in Ilford. Peter, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Hello, James. Go on. Hello, mate. Hi. Yeah, um. GB, UK. Yes. If you drive anywhere in Europe, or indeed anywhere, you have a GB plate. It's the internationally recognized abbreviated symbol for the UK. Is GB. It just is the answer, then. Sorry, it's just. It just is. I mean, why do we do that? We just do. A while ago, it was all agreed what our international, internationally agreed abbreviations were for our various nations. And is GB. Is it ever UK? Do we ever do anything as the UK and on the international stage? Well, no, I don't think so. The question is, why isn't why? Why don't we fight in the Olympics as Team UK? And your answer is because we fight as Team GB. That's what we've historically agreed to do. I don't know that. That. I don't know if it's enough. It may not be, but I'm sitting on eleven and a half rounds of applause, James, so if I lose one, well, I lose one. No one likes a show off. I deserve that. I don't. It's a little bit hot. Kettle black, actually, was the point of that gag. Peter, if there anybody who didn't notice my tongue was in my cheek when I said it I don't know that I can give you that. Just. It's all internationally. I need the. Why not? The what? Yeah, I'm going to park that. Sorry, Pete. Eleven and a half. That's impressive. Wayne in Basildon will be getting out of his box in a moment. Steve is in Lancaster. Steve, question or answer? Go on, then. What? The thing the guy said earlier about the price of eggs. Yeah. Seems to be sort of an amalgamation of two different phrases. Go on. There's no eggs version, but there is a look at you in the price of fish, which I think is related to some sort of event where fish shot up in price many years ago. So if you come home and you look an absolute mess, they say, God, look at you and the price of fish. Because the price of fish is shocking. And you're shocking, too. You're shocking. Yeah. And you think he's jumbled it up with the. What's that got to do with the price of eggs? Yeah. Yeah. Because that is a known statement as well. Is not. I think you're right. But maybe in Kent, when he was growing up, his parents or his grandparents did say, look at you and the price of eggs. Maybe it's a different geographical explanation, but the explanation for it works better with fish. Well, that is apparently a known phrase qualification, Steve. None whatsoever. Just frantic googling and. What, today? Yes. Ah, now I'm not gonna know. It's not your. It's not your fault, because I forgot to tell people the rules. And you're obviously quite new to mystery, Abbott. You, sir, have just broken the single most important rule of my entire program. You're joking. I am not. Am I in any sort of trouble? God, yes, I think I am. You googled during mystery hour to find an hour. If people did that, there would be no mystery hour, Steve. No, what it is. I've heard the expression from my parents used to say, the price of fish farm, which I never understood. And then your mystery hours reminded me of that, and I thought, yeah, what on earth does that one mean? So you've looked it up? I'm going to pretend this never happened, Steve. All right, all right. Seriously. No, you haven't let me down, Steve. You've let. You've let yourself down. It's job 42. You haven't. I forgot to tell you the rules. Entirely my fault, obviously. You cannot google stuff or look stuff up, even in books. If you've read it in the past, then that's a perfect qualification, but. Or indeed, if you've looked it up in the past, as people sometimes have. But goodness me, that was close, wasn't it? Oh, crikey. Even. Actually, you could ring in now with that answer and get a round of applause. Your qualifications would be that you heard it five minutes ago from Stephen Lancaster, but you can't look it up. That's the rule. Professor Hal knows the rules better than anybody. He's the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. He's also taken up boxing recently. Hello, James. How are you? Very well, Professor Howe. Question or answer? It's a brain freeze one, and by astonishing coincidence, I saw on Facebook a really nice video of cats getting brain freeze. Look it up. It's very, very funny. Is it safe? No. Cats were harmed in the making of no licking ice creams. And they stop and pause and then they get this look of anxiety. They stop and pause. He's such a genius. Every day. Every day there's a new one. Stop and pause. My daughters will love that. I will look it up. What have you got for me? Brain freeze. Cold is a vasoconstrictor. That is, when you get cold, your blood vessels constrict. That's why you get a pale face and your fingers are the first thing to get very cold in the very cold. And what happens when you put some ice cream? The blood vessels in your face, they constrict and your body then tries to warm them up again and they effectively throb. And anything that causes throbbing or increase and decrease in local blood pressure gives you some kind of headache. So, for example, a red wine hangover, which is particularly vicious, is vicious because it's got phenyl ethylamine in it, which causes throbbing. So the point is that it's the coldness causing the blood vessels to constrict and the apocryphal cure of stuffing your tongue up to the roof of your mouth, it just warms your sinuses up again. It goes away. I get mine in my right eye for some reason. I don't know why, but next time I get brain freeze, I'll try and work it out again. Great. Well, I mean, I don't need to ask you what your qualifications are. I've already explained to people, I like this. It's a lovely answer. It's a real thing. Yes, and it's exactly that. Your difference in colour, white face in the cold and suddenly you get very flushed. Is your body sort of trying to compensate for the coldness and the hotness and so on and so forth? So it's all about vasoconstriction. Have you kept count of your rounds of applause over the years, Professor Hale? No, I actually did write down all the questions I could remember answering. Good lord. How long did that take? Well, I had time to burn. I keep adding to it. When I remember another one. When I'm in the shower, the ink runs. Give him another one. Now, Professor Howe there showing why he's the patron saint of mystery. How I should probably come up with a less religious iconography for that. I might just call him the mascot. I'm hearing Jeremy Hunt is staying. I think that's been confirmed. Jeremy Hunt is remaining as well. Let's go to theo usher to find out. Theo, what's going on? Yes, Jeremy Hunt has been confirmed. It is staying in. He is staying in the department of Health, just across the road from Downing street. Of course, there had been speculation, which I reported, and I apologize for reporting, James, that he was going to leave the Department of Health and that he was going to leave the government. Don't apologize, mate. Never explain. Never apologize. You reported speculation and it was speculation at the time. It subsequently turned out to be wrong. I know. If anyone tells you you've done anything wrong, you give me my number, I'll sort them right now. Okay? In other news, Teresa Villiers, of course, she was secretary of state for Northern Ireland. She's been offered, she had been offered another role in government. One would presume a non cabinet post, which she turned it down. She was part of the Vote leave campaign. She was on the winning side. But she didn't have a good war. No, she didn't. She wasn't certainly at the front of that campaign. She wasn't the best media performer. And, you know, Theresa May obviously took a decision to offer her something thing, but it wasn't something that Teresa Villiers felt that she could say she could accept. And I've just got a question of dignity, isn't it? It's a question of whether or not you can walk out with your head held high and say, I used to be Northern Ireland secretary, but I've now been made minister for paperclips. Yeah. And it's all about pecking order and can you accept it? And Theresa Villiers has released a statement, I regret to say that I have left the government. The new prime minister was kind enough to offer me a role, but it was not one which I felt I could take on. I'm very grateful to being given the opportunity to serve the front bench for eleven years, first as shadow cabinet, then as transport minister, and finally as secretary of State for Northern Ireland for four years in the. David Cameron's. David Cameron's cabinet. So we're not going. She's going to join at the likes of Michael Gove and Oliver Letwin and George Osborne on the back benches. Fascinating times there. Made all the more fascinating by your reporting, of which there will be more throughout the day as this cabinet continues to coalesce. We've got a few more mysteries to. To solve before 01:00. I tell you, the podcast of mystery is going to be fun this week, isn't it? I wouldn't want to be Caroline for all the tea in China. She's got to put this together in a way that's neatly packageable and gets played out on all the British Airways planes. Good luck with that. Caroline from the LBC travels. 1251 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery are underway. A few questions still in need of answers. I like the snail bubbles one. If you know why some snails, when you pick them up, there's bubbles underneath. I want to hear from you and a few others as well. Any proper explanation of currency as well. I don't know if we're going to get that. If you're just tuning in, you should know that Theresa May's cabinet continues to be appointed. Jeremy Hunt is remaining as health secretary. That's the big development of the last few minutes. Stephen Crabb has just come out of Downing street. We haven't found out yet what his role will be. The fact that he's been called in in person suggests either that he's staying at work and pensions or that he's been offered something similar. You kind of hope he's been offered something similar so that the headline writers can talk about crabbe making a sideways move. Crab side. No. All right, get lost, then. Pete's in common. Pete, question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on, Pete. I work for a marquee company now and I'm outside in gardens a lot and I've just noticed that I can't decide what is a weed and what is a flower and I'd like to know is who decides what is a weed and what is a flower? You do. I do, yeah. There's absolutely no biological distinction between a plant that you want and a plant that you don't. It's entirely in the eye of the beholder. So although some of them grow in a horrible way and rapacious, and you wouldn't want them anywhere near carefully manicured garden, if you were landscaping something ten times the size of the average garden. And you needed to cover an area with leaves. Stuff that you'd pull out of your front garden, you'd plant in your. In your back meadow. The difference between a flower and a weed is entirely in the eye of the beholder. Wow. Okay. It's awesome, mate. It is, isn't it? How do you manage to just answer these questions so well? Oh, no, hang on. No, I don't mean it's awesome, because I've probably been asked this before on mystery hour, or I've asked it myself and worked it out, but it's quite remarkable, really, to think that you go through life just presuming that there's something that defines a weed. There just isn't. And the more you think about it, the more sense it makes. Pete, why would there. Because when weeds flower, you know, see, a dandelion can look beautiful. It can look beautiful, daisies look beautiful. That's why I keep saying to our misses, she says, I want you to do the weeding outside the front door. And I said, they look beautiful. Yeah, I'm not sure that's quite the same thing, but more power to your elbow, Pete. Thank you very much for that. And of course, for this. 1253 is the time Michael Gove sacked as justice secretary. Justin Greening hired us or promoted to education. Liz Truss has got the other job at justice. Don't know who's got education yet, do we? Justin Greening's got education now. I said, justin Greening, what are we waiting for? What are we waiting? Transport. What are the other big jobs, grayling going to get? Interesting times. Ko is in Croydon. Ko. Question or answer? It's a question, mate. Carry on, mate. Yeah, just a quick one. Been a while, James. Anyway, by the way, he's better late than never. Glad to have you back on board. Nice. Question is, you know, with 26 seconds. I know, obviously for operational reasons, to get Mei into the. See the queen, you know, before being sworn in as prime minister. I just keep on thinking, James, in that period of time, say there was some, obviously out of the earth, you know, national disaster, she got abducted, and then at the same time there was something in national, you know, national security at stake. We need someone to decide. So what if something epic happened during the 26 2nd handover? Obviously he's already out, you know, he's not promised anymore. But what if something happened while he was locked in the loo? I mean, a 26 2nd window could happen in a million different circumstances. It doesn't just have to be during the handover yeah. So I just keep on thinking of time. Who would decide, you know, what happened, who would take the step, you know, to, like, maybe a kind of a cobra corporate meeting kind of operations. You'd have a deputy prime minister or. I mean, I don't know that. It's such a mystery, this relevant to the exchange of prime ministers that we've just. Don't forget James Fing. Sorry, not fing. That's a bit rude, Cameron. Probably in recent times, the only person, well, besides Tony Blair, who had a deputy prime minister to conduct on his behalf back in the day, he used to be nobody. Well, technically speaking, it used to be the chancellor of Chequer that we knew to be the second inquiry. Okay. No, well, we've only got a couple of minutes left, so who is. Who is in charge when you can't get hold of the prime minister, really, is the question. Yeah, that's it. No, I quite like that. We'll find out. We're very, very short of time. There's only three minutes yet, I can tell you. Baroness Evans has been made leader of the Lords as well. More on this, more with these developing stories with Sheila Fogarty through the course of the afternoon. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of the questions that we've currently got on the board. Baroness Evans has a background in education. Richard is in Worthing. Richard, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's to do with Team GB. Oh, good. I wasn't happy with the answer we got. Yeah, he was kind of right in a way. If you look at the athletics, which I watch when they do the relays, they've got GbR on their vests, and that's the code that the teams have, like Germany is Ger, Netherlands, Ned and etcetera. But he'd still want to know why it's not Uki. Well, if they said team UK, it would confuse the Americans, wouldn't it? Why? Well, because they don't even really know what the difference between great Britain and England is, do they? No, but I don't know. That's the reason why our Olympic team is called Team GB, because the Americans are a bit slow on the uptake. You could cause a diplomatic incident with that sort of talk, Richard. And B, it's not. It's not going to be the historical explanation for it, is it? Well, in fact, if it was to do with the GbR, which I think it is, then it should actually be Team GbR. Yeah. See, you're making your answer worse now the more you talk, aren't you? But I think that's what it is. Well, it isn't. The question is why? And your answer is because the Americans are a bit dozy. There's no way that's the reason why. No, no, that's just a side point. Oh, by the way, a weed is a flower. That's in the wrong place. I said that already. Sean's in Stoke. Podias. Put Sean on. I like his answer. I want some help with this. Can we push Sean to the front of the queue? Are we going to be able to do that? Are we going to be able to ring it? But he's not. Sean, you've blown it, mate. I've only got a minute left. Nader's in edgeware. Nader. Question or answer? Answer. Bring it on, sir. Yes, it's about that currency question, James, that the young lady had asked. Yes. I just wanted to provide a very simple analogy between the way that the currency exchange rates are set and say, for example, if you imagine that a big economy or big country is something like a branch of a big chain of supermarkets, as opposed to a small grocery shop further down the road, which is, shall we say, a smaller country, and once a small grocery is about to start its trading, the way that they decide on, say, a price of a pint of milk is based on a wide range of factors. One of them is, for example, to attract the customers to come to the small shop. Of course, it's not a straight comparison on a level playing field. There's lots of other factors at play. Absolutely. Absolutely. And so, for example, a pint of milk might be sold in the big shop as 95 p, whereas in the grocery shop is sold at trying to make your currency more or less attractive. I'm out of time. NATO, I'm going to give you a quick round of applause. Can I ask you a question? Do I recognize your voice or am I imagining things? Well, I haven't had the honor of being on your show before, but thank you for it. No, that's quite all right. And that is it from me for another day. The cabinet remains to be completed. It will be probably by close of play today, but Sheila Fogarty is going to talk you through the next stages among sundry other conversational delights coming up on LBC right now. That is true. I will all the latest news on Theresa May's new cabinet stage.