Is there such thing as a friendly virus?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien three minutes after twelve is the time, one of those very, very rare occasions where I find my attention drawn towards the political sphere, even as we prepare for the excitement of mystery Abbott given that that vote isn't until 05:00 today, we will continue with the scheduled program. As they say, as the grown ups say, this is of course your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You will ring in, or you will hear other people ring in with a variety of questions covering an incredible array of areas and topics. And then you will hear other people ring in. It may possibly be you yourself ringing into Amsterdam. It really is pretty much as simple as that. There are certain criteria for inclusion, largely dullness and repetition, although repetition is a movable feast. Given how long we've been doing this and how poor my memory is. Repetition. I was about to try and do a joke about repeating dullness there, but I blew it. Anyway. The number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. There is a prize for my favorite contribution. The prize is a pristine copy of the mystery Hour board game, available now in John Lewis as well as online via Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. I still have a little frisson of disbelief when I say that out loud. A mystery hour. I mean, no one listened to this program when we started doing mystery hour, let alone enough people to merit the idea of actually having a highly successful board game launched off the back of it. But we really do. You can buy it in shops, you buy it on Amazon, you can buy it from mysteryour dot co dot UK comma and you can buy it. And it's brilliant. I haven't had one duff response. Quite magnificent to think of the fun that was had across the nation as a consequence of mystery, how being turned into a board game by some geniuses. Nothing to do with me. I just got my face on the box and anyway, my favorite contribution this week will win a pristine box of mystery out board game and my decision is final. Although the full terms and conditions can be found at LBC dot co dot UK dot, I think that's pretty much it. You will get a Ray Liotta. We tend to play out more Ray Liottas during mystery than any other part of the week. If your qualifications for contributing are beyond belief. I mean, if you are so on the money with your qualifications that we are all slightly agog with amazement and admiration, then you'll get a Ray Liotta. But again, it's entirely in my gift and no complaints are allowed. We've done that one Johnny in Basildon. We've done that quite recently, so we won't take that call. First. We'll go instead to Andy, who is in Morden. Andy, question, answer. I have got a question for you, James. When it rains, is it inevitable that those raindrops fall to earth? Or on occasions, can they get blown back up into the clouds or evaporate before they reach the earth or what? So once. Once a raindrop has formed and started falling. Yep. Are there any circumstances in which it won't reach earth yet? Reach the earth. Succinct and to the point. Yeah. Why did you? Why? What makes you wonder that? Well, I saw a rain cloud the other day and you could see where the, sort of. The rain was dropping out of it and then it sort of disappeared. And I don't know if it was being blown and scattered by a lower level wind or whether it only reached that level in the. It couldn't be blown back up, could it? Because it would. I mean, as long as it's still water, then. Then when the opportunity presents itself, it's going to fall back down again. But it could possibly hit so much heat that it evaporates back up. But if it was being. If it was being blown around by wind and it was scattered, that the raindrop was actually scattered, would that make it small enough for it to go back up on an up current? Yeah, I quite like that question. I was in the car wash the other day and it's one of the rare areas in which you regularly see water going uphill, isn't it? When you've got. When you get the blower on the windscreen and it starts going. I'm always slightly hypnotized by that. No one else's. I thought my daughter would be like a man. I said, look, darling, there's some water going uphill. You don't see that very often. And she gave me that look that teenage girls give their dad when they reach a level of dullness. Yeah, all right, dad. All right. Well done. Yeah, you carry on looking at your little water drops, dad, I've got some Taylor Swift to listen to. Thank you. I like that question. Can raindrops. Yeah, raindrops. Do they keep falling on your head or can they in fact, make their way back up into the sky? That's the second verse of the song, suggests 1208 David's in Birmingham David, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So, a bit of a weird one. They're my favorite. Yes. So, taking my four year old to the toilet the middle of the night, she's half asleep, he's itching all over his body, and he does it every single time. Right. And I kind of turned my wife, and I said, why is this? You know, this is weird. He's itching everywhere. She was like, well, I do that when I'm tired, too, or when I've woken up. And then I thought about it, I was like, yes. I also like falling asleep. I'll be itching. My skin gets itchy when I'm tired or if I've woken up. So I'm just thinking either something very weird is going on in our kind of genetic pool. You mean it's unique to your family? Well, hopefully not. My question is, basically, why do we get itchy when we're tired or half asleep? Does it happen when you're active but tired, or does it only happen when you're half asleep already through tiredness, sleep already, or falling asleep? I'm thinking it might be circulation. Then things might have slowed down. Yeah, possibly. I mean, I don't know. I don't know if that's. I'm trying to think whether. I'm just gonna do a quick straw poll in the studio to see. And I don't want you to get upset or anything, but does any. Does anyone else get itchy when they get tired? This is awkward. I think it might just be you. Oh, dear. Do you get itchy when you get tired? Can you ask a little? You think you might. Right, well, okay. Why do we get. Why do some people get itchy when they get tired? How does that work for you? That's great. I mean, just be some people that. That would also be interesting to know. I like to have a scratch. I mean, this is a little bit intimate, but I do like to have a scratch of the morning. But I don't know if it's. I don't know if I'm particularly itchy. Right. Yeah, yeah, that could be it. That could be part of it, though. You never know you're on. Yeah, I mean, it's usually when I realize it's time I cut my fingernails, but that's probably far too much information. David, many thanks indeed. Zero 345-606-0973 is there a relationship between itchiness and fatigue? It'd be the fancy way of putting the question. Or why do we get itchy when we're tired. We'll probably be more in tune with David's little boy. Lee is also in Birmingham. Lee, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes. I often drive across the m 62 because I drive a truck and I see a sign saying 1222 foot above sea level. How do they work out sea level? Because the seabed's not level and the tide goes up and down. Yeah. But they just take. Oh, man. I should know this. Just bear with me for a minute, will you? I will. It doesn't. I mean, they take. It's. There's. There's an agreement on sea level, if you see what I mean. It's a man made concept, and that is sea level. So the sea can be below sea level. There you go. That's part of the answer to your confusion, isn't it? Not really. Yes, it is. Yes, it is. Don't argue. Because you're saying, how can you have a sea level? If the sea goes up and down, the sea can be below sea level. So sea level is like. Yeah, of course it can, because it doesn't move according to where the sea is. Sea level is like a fixed sign and it's 1222 foot precisely. Yeah. That's what stopped me. How can that be? Because sea level is a thing. I'm trying to remember what thing it is. I'm getting to the point where I'm accepting it's not going to come to me in the course of bantering and delaying with you. But that is the first bit of the answer that you need to understand, to deal with your confusion, is the idea that it. So it moves. It doesn't move. So the sea itself, you can go to the sea and the seaside. At the seaside, the sea will be below sea level. Gotcha. I think I understand what you're saying. Yeah. But some. You need a better answer, because we need to know what sea level is and how it was decided, don't we? And that then you'll be gone. Yes, please. You're on. That would be awesome. I shall do my best for you, Lee. What is sea level zero. 345-606-0973 Xander is in Brookman's Park. Xander, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Good afternoon. Hello. Right. What I want to know is if you have your voice box removed for an operation for operational purposes. Yeah. What do they do with the voice box? Does it get put in a fridge or what? Or a bin? What is. And then put back in. Is there such a thing as a voice box? Is it not just a figure of speech. It's an anatomical phenomenon. Is it a voice box? Well, the reason why I'm asking was that I have mine removed a few years ago and for medical procedures. Procedure? Because of sepsis. And they put a pipe down where the voice box would have been. Right. And that was my. It was my understanding that the voice box was removed and so to aid with my breathing. Yeah. But a friend asked me, well, what did they do with the voice box? And obviously, I didn't have much of a clue what I did. Now, at the time, whenever I tried to speak, I have friends visiting me in hospital, I tried to speak and all that came out was air. Wow. There was no sort of the vocal cords in the voice box? Yes. Yes. They were just removed somehow. What did they put back, if you don't mind me asking? Well, that's what I want to know. You know. That's why I'm asking, because I'm not medically qualified. I hate to break it to you, Xander, but. Nor am I, mate, but I don't understand how you've got your voice now. If they took your voice box out. Yeah, well, that's. That's what. Because I was just led to believe. Because I had a tracheotomy. Right. Yeah, they did a tracheotomy. I. When. When friends came to visit me, I tried to speak back to them. All that came out was just air. And then, as time passed. As time passed, your voice. They put a pipe down my throat. Yeah. To aid me with breathing. Yeah. And then afterwards, a couple of days later, and my voice was restored. So I was just under the impression they take. And is your voice the same as it was before? Yes. Well, then they can't have taken your voice box out unless they put it back again. Well, that's what I want to know. Oh. Where did they put it before they put it back? Is that the question? Oh, sorry. I thought you would mean, where did they put it? I mean, because I know. I mean, you're putting a lot of faith in mystery. You're putting a lot of faith in mystery hour, Xander. No, I get it. I mean, that's why I asked about the vocal. Because the sound is made when air passes over them, isn't it? That's how we make. Make sounds and noises and speech and song. But you're putting a lot of faith in mystery hour on this. You could have just gone back to your doctor. Oh, no, I've moved since. That was 15 years ago, James, and I thought, well, you know, you have experts listening in from all disciplines, don't you? This is what I mean. We do. We do. But, I mean, this is probably the most faith anyone's ever placed in mystery. Where did they put Xander's voice box when they. Yeah. Can I ask what hospital it was? Just in case the actual surgeon responsible is listening. Sorry, what hospital was it? It was Queens Medical center in Nottingham. There we go. I was in altogether. I was in for four months at both Queens Medical and city hospital in Nottingham. Well, you sound very well. You've made a full recovery, clearly. Oh, well, sort of. I lost a few toes and a bit of stomach and a bit of a finger and part of my stomach and one or two other bits and pieces. No, I'm fine now. It's just the friend asked me, where did your voice. What did they do with your voice? Where did your voice box. Then they took it out and I said, well, I don't know. I just had no idea. Did you resist the urge to do the joke? What joke was that? To say to the doctor when you put my voice box back in, will I be able to sing opera? And then he would say. He would say, yes. There's no reason at all why you wouldn't be able to sing opera. And you would say, well, that's good, because I couldn't sing it before. Or Yodel. I gotta get you. We gotta try. Get Xander an answer for that. What a fantastic question. 16 minutes after twelve. We've got an early leader for the mystery hour board game as well this week. I think 16 minutes after twelve is the time. If you can answer that question, the sea level question, the itchy and tired question or the raindrops don't keep falling on my head question. Then you know what to do. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 90 minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues with some absolutely cracking questions. If you can answer any of them, you know what to do. If you'd like to contribute your own inquiry. Well, you also know what to do. Danny's in Rochester. Danny, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got an answer for you. It has to do with the raindrop question. Oh, splendid. Do they keep falling on my head or can they make their way back up into the atmosphere? They can't make their way back up. So you were almost right when you said about the heat. It's actually cold air. So as rain, raindrops can begin to fall from a cloud, but if they pass through a layer of colder, drier air, they can evaporate ground. This is more common during winter because obviously the air tends to be colder during winter, but during the summer it can happen in certain weather patterns as well. So it starts, so it's water and then it hits cold air and it evaporates. I'm being a bit thin. Yes. Cold air tends to be drier, so there's less moisture in the air. And because there's less moisture in, let's say there's a layer below the clouds, the raindrops will fall out of the cloud, move into that colder, drier air. Because the air is drier, the raindrop just evaporates. Is evaporate the right word? Yes. So there's something called evaporative cooling. That's what I need. This is the content I came out process. Yeah. Okay. Because everyone else thinks of kettles and you think of steam and evaporation. So the water. But it's not doing that. It's being almost. There's a level of moisture in the air and if you go below that level, then when water reaches that bit of air, it will suck the moisture into the air and then it will now just be slightly more moist air than it was before. Is that right? During winter you can see that when it'll start raining and then after a few minutes it turns to snow. That's because as the snow drops, the snowflakes melt higher up it cause the air around it and then that freezing level lowers. It's sort of a similar process. Yeah. I love it. Qualifications. I've been studying Weber for 15 years and I run a social media account dedicated to Weber. Fantastic reminders. What it's called. It's called met forecast. There we go. That's a lovely answer. Oh, great stuff. Qualification. We've got the qualifications. Round of applause for Danny. Thank you. Thank you. Snowflakes. I forgot to do woke watch today. I will. Well, I didn't forget to do woke watch today. I just didn't have a good example. So we will return to that tomorrow, hopefully. But you need to keep sending in the thing of me, the examples. The contenders for Wokewatch 22 after twelve. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Answer, James. Sea level rise. Sea level and height above sea level. So, yeah, you were very close with your idea that it's obviously fixed to a certain location. So sea level was originally fixed to Liverpool, but now it's a couple hundred years ago, the audience survey moved that location to a little town in Cornwall called Newlyn. Oh, yeah. So all of our heights now are measured what we call meters above Auden's datum. Newlyn. Newlyn was chosen because I think he's got quite a small tidal range. Right. And also of quite predictable tidal cycles. But you're quite right that the tide obviously does fall below sea level. So as you look at a tidal hydrograph, you'll see that some of those values will be below that value. But essentially, the. The value that is chosen as zero is the kind of median, really, of that tidal cycle, generally. As in. As in the midpoint between high tide and low tide? Kind of, yeah. But then obviously around the coast, you'll see that every other hydrograph is then kind of obviously has to mimic the baseline calibrated to the baseline. And it's the ordinance survey that are in charge of disseminating that information, as it were. Yes. And then, obviously, all of their contour maps are all set to that value. Is it international? No, it's not. So there could be different sea levels in different places in the world? Yeah, I mean, obviously because the tides and they're obviously translated all around the planet as if the earth sort of rotates on its axis. So each kind of mapping organization will have their own fixed baseline according to their own needs. Really good answer. Qualifications? Cartography degree and environment agency. Now doing flood warning and all kinds of things around the kind of coastal forecasts and things. How many rounds of applause is that you've got now you're keeping count? Four, I think. Pretty good, isn't it? This is the fourth or the fifth coming up? This is the fourth, I think. The fourth. There we go. Look at that. Thank you, Andy. Lovely stuff. It was a nice answer as well. Lee will now be able to drive his truck over the M 62 with a little bit more knowledge in his glovebox than he had before. What's the raindrops one? What's the name of the fellow who answered the raindrops one? I've got to keep my notes, keeping my notes so I can give away the free one. David's course it was. It was Danny with the forecast. Elliot's in Solly hole. Quite a West Midlands flavour to the program today. Elliot, question or answer? It's a question. Joe Cariel. Why do we refer to the recently deceased as the late? Yeah, it's a good question that I'm gonna just burble for a bit in the hope that the answer comes to me, but I'm not massively optimistic if you'd like some context, James, it's because a friend of mine from Pampler was at a wedding here recently. Yes. And, you know, you got guests at certain tables and they're sort of seated out like a seating plan. Across from him was a vacated seat for a late uncle, who I think because the wedding was supposed to be during COVID but it wasn't. And he passed away since, unfortunately. But he asked me why he said, the late uncle so and so because he assumed it was because he was arriving later in proceedings. You just wouldn't you want to. He wants to skip the speeches. Exactly. But I couldn't explain it to him. But he asked me, what does it mean? So I thought I'd ask you and the listener, because you say late of this parish, but that's not an answer to the question, is it? Because that's the same use of the word late in the college. It might just be a use of the word that we're not familiar with because it only happens in those contexts. So it's like asking, why does any word mean anything? The. Yeah, I feel like you only use it for recently deceased as well. You don't use it, for example, Oliver Cromwell. You don't call him the late Oliver Cromwell, do you? I don't know if you'd be technically incorrect if you did, but I guess it's possibly for where there's any room for confusion about whether somebody is. Is alive or dead. Although in this case, it's created more confusion with your spanish friend. Yeah. June Brown was the only one because obviously she passed away recently. So she's referred to quite a bit in the late June Brown. The late. Exactly. Yeah. I like that. We'll get you an answer. I'm almost certain, but I'm a little bit embarrassed that I can't give it to you myself because I think at some point that might have come up before. I think we might be with that question. And even with the c level question, although Andy's already answered that, we might be erring or veering very close to the possibility of someone's qualifications for answering a question on this week's mystery hour being the fact that they've actually had it as a question in the mystery hour board game, which is just proof positive that when I tell you I've forgotten probably more questions and answers on mystery hour than I could ever remember. I am not yanking your chain. Pretty sure we've had that one before. But if I can't remember the answer, we're allowed to have it again. Ross is in Newcastle. Ross. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Hello. So it's an answer to the tracheostomy question. Yes. So he was asking what happened to his voice box? He was, yeah. Yeah. So when a tracheostomy doesn't actually have that much to do with the voice box, because everything happens below it. Right. So if you. Your Adam's apple is obviously just under your chin there, a tracheostomy goes in below that and it's just a hole or a communication from the windpipe or trachea to the outside. Yeah. And that means that they can breathe through that hole or if need to be ventilated through that hole. And that means that when Xander tried to talk, the reason only air came out was because no air was making its way past the tracheotomy hole. Yes. So his voice box went nowhere. His voice box stayed exactly where it always is. Exactly. Exactly. That. There are. Sherlock Holmes. I love that. The answer, once you've eliminated all the possibilities, like it being in a fridge, whatever you are left with, however unlikely it might seem, and now it doesn't actually seem that unlikely. But when he came on the radio, just presuming from the start, the premise of the question was that it had been put somewhere. Of course, the answer is it hadn't been put anywhere, it had just been bypassed by the. By the hole in his neck of interest. There are tracheostomies you can get with holes that enable people to speak. They're called speaking valves. That means that it will let air in through the tracheostomy, but then it won't let air out through it. So the air going out will be forced to go up through your mouth and nose. And that enables people to speak. But that's for people who have them longer term. Yeah. Or permanently. And there's machines as well, isn't there, that you can put. You can hold it to your vocal cords and it will act as a. So you can get. I haven't seen one of those personally. You do sometimes see people with laryngectomies who have little valves, they have to press and then air goes through a different hole. But again, it's about producing a vibrating column of air through your mouth and nose. Oh, yeah. I'm going to be quite diplomatic about how much I share in this story. I was on my way back from Ibiza quite early on in my courtship with Misses O'Brien, and we had. I had taken an executive decision to stay in the club. We were supposed to go back to our hotel, have a few hours sleep, pick up our luggage and then go to the airport. And I took an executive decision midway through proceedings that we would stay in the club until the last possible moment, get the taxi to the hotel, pick up our luggage and then go back to the airport. Sounds like a great idea. It was. I've got no regrets, but I was feeling. I was a little worse for wear by this point in proceedings, and my then fiance expressed concern that I might not be allowed on the plane. And I put my sunglasses on and I was, you know, looking after myself and trying to keep a low profile. The bloke in front of us in the queue for the plane back from Ibiza had a record box, you know, like a metal record box. And he. I couldn't quite believe my eyes. He had a, I presume a permanent tracheostomy. And he stuck a cigarette in it. Yeah. You hear again, never seen it, but you hear about the sort of. I said to misses, I think they're going to let me on the plane. I think their focus might be somewhere else. Yeah. Could you imagine? It was unbelievable. What are your qualifications? I think I can gas. I'm an anesthetist. There we go. Round of applause for Ross. Great work. Thank you. Cheers. Thank you. Ah, happy days. Crikey. 12:30 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Amelia Cox has your headline. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 I'm going to interrupt mystery hour briefly because we've spent quite a lot of time over the last two days naming, and I believe, shaming MP's who were, in my view, denying their patriotic duty, never mind their parliamentary duty, to police the prime minister. It's what parliament is for. And the attempts by Boris Johnson to evade scrutiny, evade investigation, evade inquiry, evade the consequences of his actions are legion now. And I think, therefore, it's only right to recognise Tory MP's who are doing or who will do the right thing. And William Wragg MP has just delivered a speech which, as far as I can tell, is remarkable. I'm going to read you some of it by way of proof that the question we've been asking for the last two days about whether or not they would do the right thing and why they wouldn't do the right thing was probably the most urgent question that british politics has faced this year. Feels like a very, very long time ago when certain newspapers were trying to tell you that the real villain of the piece was Keir Starmer. Do you remember that? Keir Starmer, by giving voice to grieving families and explaining why Boris Johnson's attempts to, quote, move on, or Jacob Riis Molg, shamefully describing their plight as fluff, were so despicable. You have to pinch yourself sometimes when you swim against the tide of the mail and the Murdoch media, because they do get to define reality. As Goebbels said, you tell a lie enough times, it becomes the truth. But it feels like years ago, doesn't it, that people were trying to tell you that the real problem here was Keir Starmer in this piece. So here is William Wragge, a conservative MP. He's just told the House, I cannot reconcile myself to the prime minister's continued leadership of our country and the conservative party. To see Allegra Stratton crying, feeling the full weight of responsibility and anger of a country, was deeply moving, and I felt immensely sorry for her. We have been working in a toxic atmosphere. The parliamentary party bears the scars of misjudgments of leadership. There can be few colleagues on this side of the house who are truly enjoying being members of parliament at the moment. It is utterly depressing to be asked to defend the indefensible. Each time part of us withers. That is the point that we've been making about what do they tell themselves when they go through those lobbies, when they turn up for those interviews? Each time, part of us withers. We must stop delegating and delaying our political judgment. We each only have our own limited and imperfect integrity. There it is, right there. From the words of a conservative MP, the entire reasoning behind the last two days of coverage on this program of Boris Johnson's latest disgrace. And William Wragge concludes, we can't keep spending it on others who we cannot be sure will not let us down. Wow. 1237 is the time. Back to mystery hour. Chris is in rye. Chris, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Chris. I want to know if there are any good viruses. I want to know if there are viruses that, you know, make you feel better and when you wake up in the morning, I'm really great here. And what's happened? What's happened? Have you been feeling quite chipper in the mornings? No, but I just think if there's viruses that make you feel bad, it would make much more sense for a virus to make you feel good, because then you go down the pub, you mix with your mates, and the virus would just spread all over the place, wouldn't it? Rather than everyone staying at home in lockdown. If there was a virus, surely. I mean, I love where you're coming from on this, but surely if there was a virus that made us feel good, we'd know about it, wouldn't we? I don't know. Would we ever bother looking for it? It's just everyone feels okay and happy. You wouldn't think anything was wrong. I know there are some viruses called phages that infect bacteria, so they're probably a bit good for. They're biologically good, but I don't think they would affect your mood much. I want to know if we get one. And maybe we've got it all the time, you know, maybe otherwise. Some people have got it. Some people have. Yeah. No, I mean. So I. So I. You catch a virus and it makes you feel better than you would do if you didn't have it. Yeah, exactly. Well, I think the answer is no. But I hope it's yes, because if it is, we should have a plague party. We could all go around licking each other's faces, hoping that we contract it. The thing is, you see, you may never know that you got it, would you? You just feel good and everyone will feel good. So. Yeah. So you have days when you don't know quite why you're feeling so at one with the universe, don't you? Could you possibly have caught something? Could you have caught a sort of happiness bug? Sorry? A happiness bug is what we're talking about. Yeah. That's a great question, Chris. I should try and find out. But I'll tell you what, if the answer is yes, I'll give you the money myself. Okay. Thank you. 1239. I suppose laughter, in a way, fits into that category, but not in a. In a medical sense. Louise is in Nottingham. Louise, question or answer? Hi, James. I have an answer. Carry on. So it's about the itchy skin at night. Yeah. So part of your. You suggested that because of the body temperature of the blood flow. That is one part of the answer, but also. So it's a known thing. Is it getting itchy when you're tired? It's not just David and his family down in berm. No, it's not. Yeah. No, they don't need to go to the doctor. Thank goodness for that. Unless you've got some weird rashes, then maybe pop down. But, yeah. No, so we. Because we don't hydrate in our sleep and we're not drinking water, every part of our body becomes naturally dehydrated. And obviously through sweating as well. And that can make the surface of the skin quite itchy. But then, like you mentioned, the body temperature, it's body temperature and blood flow increases to keep it warm. And then the rise in temperature of our body makes us feel itchy as well. So it could all be linked into the dehydration thing, really. So, yeah, I like it a lot. Qualifications? I'm a veteran army medic. Yeah, that'll do nicely. Round of applause for Louise. Look at that. Fantastic. So the voice box question was done rather brilliantly, wasn't it, by Ross. Louise has done the itchy and tired question from David. Andy Diddley's sea level question. Chris's viruses. Is there such a thing as a virus that makes you feel better than you would feel if you didn't have the virus? We like that. And the origin of the word late when referring to a dead person. Still in need of answers, but we've got room for some more questions. Marjorie's in lower stuff. Marjorie, question or answer? Question. Carry on. When we born, we're born without teeth. Then we get our milk teeth and when they fall out, they're replaced by our permanent teeth. Why don't we grow another tooth if we lose those? Some people do, I think. Oh, but do you want to know? I'm surprised you don't know this, Marjorie, but all your teeth are in your head when you're born. Yeah, but they're stacked up, they don't grow. They're stacked up on top of each other. Well, is it not possible? I mean, whales grow, replace their teeth. Can we not do it so that we replace our teeth? Well, obviously not. Otherwise we'd be doing it like it was going out of fashion, wouldn't we? Well, you'd think so. No, but we can't grow a tooth. We can't. It's all there in your. In your skull. You see a skull, sometimes you can see all the teeth stacked up on top of each other. Oh, so that's the answer. I mean, you can't grow a tooth. Well, it's sickening. Well, it's not get carried away. There's worse things to worry about in the world. You should try being. You should try losing your hair like I am. I'd rather grow hair than grow another tooth. I'm all right with my talk and go to the dentist's. Well, I don't know. I mean, I've got false teeth and they're driving me pottery. Well, that's because they probably don't fit properly. Is it? Oh, no. Oh, do they click a bit? I think millions of people are the same. Well, I've often thought that evolution missed a trick there, because we shouldn't even have teeth by now. We should just have, like, permanent plates or something to eat with, because people would die of a rotten tooth not that long ago, before antibiotics were invented. And even now, the pain you have when you have a toothache. It's amazing to me that evolution hasn't come up with a solution to teeth. Yeah, exactly. Never mind growing you, maybe we could be at the vanguard of a new level of the species. We're just waiting for someone to be born. The problem is, there wouldn't be any reproductive advantage to growing your own teeth, Margery. You wouldn't be able to sire more children, which is, of course, the driving engine of evolution. If you could grow your own teeth, would you have more children than the people over there who couldn't grow their own teeth? Answer. Probably not. Oh, I don't know. I think I would. I got to give you a round of applause for the question, but I'm afraid that's the best answer you're going to get. Thank you. I hope your teeth feel better soon. John is in Bristol. John, question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, it's a question, mate. Oh, excellent, John. We always look forward to your questions. What have we got? There we go, then. Why are the buttons and the opening on the front of my trousers called flies or fly button? Yes. Well, you want to know why it's called the fly? Why is it called the fly or the buttons called fly buttons? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. You'd think. I thought I might know that judge. It's got. No. Got nothing. The flies. The flies. The flies. I mean, the. No. God, yeah. No, go. Right, you're on. I honestly thought I knew that. I'm just something to do with theaters I've got in my head. I mean, the question was prompted. Yeah, from an experience that I had this morning in the. In the. In the clothes department of Marks and Spencer was. Well, that sounds reasonable. It couldn't have been indecent if it happened in Marks and Spencer. No, it's not indecent. No. A lady walked past me and said, here, mate, your flies are undone. Did she really? Yeah. And my embarrassment. I said, don't worry, misses. Dead men. Don't worry. Fall out window. Sorry about that. That's all right. You should hear my opera joke earlier. I shall try. I should try get you an answer to your ridiculous questions, on which is only really. You're not even interested in the answer. It was just an excuse to do your kind of. What kind of your Jimmy cricket tribute act, wasn't it? Oh, my God. I know it was. You don't even care about the answer. You just wanted to get your joke on the radio. No, no, I got your. I got both your books. I got your board game. Of course I care about the answer. All right, then, you're on. We'll try and find out for you. And keep the laughter going. You got to. You got to, haven't you? I'm not laugh. You've got to keep it going, otherwise, what's the alternative? Coming up to quarter to one is the time. Why are flies called flies? Is there such a thing as a good virus? Why did we refer to recently deceased people as late? Done the voice box, done the sea level. Done the itchy and tired. Done the raindrops. Looking good, looking good this week. And I think Xander Sanders still just edging ahead for the copy of the board game for the question about his own voice box, which was built, it turned out, on an entirely false premise. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three four five six. Zero six zero nine seven three. Twelve. Forty eight is the time. Brexit hard man Steve Baker. Even by the dismal standards of Brexit hard man Steve Baker has just. Well, I mean, plumbed a depth in the House of Commons that I think could only be fairly described as previously unplumbed. Ian Blackford has called Boris Johnson a liar in the House of Commons and he hasn't been reprimanded by the speaker. I think that's because you cannot have an inquiry into an investigation or a debate about an investigation into whether or not the prime minister has lied to the House of Commons without at least positing the premise of the investigation. I think something similar might have happened with Jeremy Hunt some years ago, but normally you're not allowed, obviously, to call MP's liars in the House of Commons. Even if they are, even if their pants are on fire, you're not allowed to call them liars. And Steve, Brexit hard man Steve Baker has responded by referring to Ian Blackford as a brother in Christ and asked him, does he not believe in redemption? I mean, there's desperate and there's Brexit hard man Steve Baker. My colleague Shivani Sharma, has tweeted very, very sagaciously. So. It seems politicians can bring in religion, but religious leaders can't bring in politics. Talk about double standards. It was double standards day yesterday. We forgot to properly mark it. But there it is, Brexit hard man, Steve Baker, surrounded by politicians who think the archbishop of Canterbury should stay quiet about matters christian, but weighing in, using Christianity as some sort of desperate fire escape down which Boris Johnson might be able to escape the wrath of politicians dedicated to telling the truth about him. What a strange day this has turned out to be. And what a remarkable humiliation it is for the newspapers that have spent days now trying to tell you that none of this mattered, none of it was important. It was all going away. And even one yesterday, the Daily Express yesterday, trying to claim that Keir Starmer was the real villain of the debate in the House of Commons on Tuesday. Strange times. We live in. Mike's in Shefford in Bedfordshire. Mike, question or answer? Hi, James. It is a question just to say, wow, what a heavy day. So, isn't it. My question's a little bit light. Hopefully, it will provoke some responses from your. Well, hurry up, but we won't have time. Well, I just want to say, great program. I'm a tired hack, so you'll understand why I'm chatting, but my question is straightforward. It's about moles. My wife. My wife, pat and I walk quite a lot. Yeah. And we walk over. We walk over lots and lots of fields. And in those fields, we see lots and lots of molehills. In fact, one of our. One of the places near us is called Molehill Meadow. Now, those molehills are sometimes about a foot high. And my question is that all dug by 1 mol? One tiny little mole at night? Or are there teams of moles that do them, or are there giant moles? There's a third option. I don't know whether you worked on a tabloid, but that'd be the tail that we went with. But it's one of those things, you know, we walk up and think, God is another molehill, and. And it's called molehill Meadow. We call it molehill. Oh, you call it molehill Meadow. Right. Okay. Because we've got so many molehills in there. But everywhere you go, I mean, it's not just. It's not just in sleepy Bedfordshire that I get it. So, molehills, they would know. They're bound to be dug by more than 1 mol, aren't they? There'd be several moles. I don't know. What will you. Well, we'll find out. We'll find out. How many moles does it take to make a molehill? Yes, I like it. Don't make a mountain out of a molehill. We only want a molehill. When does a molehill become a mountain? I shall try and find out for you. I presume it's more than one. But of course, you're right. I don't know, maybe there's like a pioneer mole that goes out first and then all the other moles follow. They do more or less similar sizes, but you're right. Occasionally wound up. That might have more to do with the soil, the dryness and the moisture of this. Come on, we've only got six minutes. Someone get this one right. How many moles does it take to make a molehill? Is there such a thing as a pleasant virus? Why are the flies on John's trousers called flies? Why do we refer to recently deceased people as late? That's all I've got on my list. I think we've done the rest and Tom's in Tottenham. Tom, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. My question is, if you're on a flight and you have a medical emergency, what happens when you land? With regards to the customs checks, if you're immediately rushed off to hospital? What, you mean your luggage? No, you yourself. You say if you need to be whisked straight off the hospital, how do they check your passport and that you are who you say you are? Yeah. Okay. I mean, I presume they don't bother, really. They just keep you under some sort of custody when you get there. Or they have it with. Yeah. So someone is being rushed through customs on a stretcher directly to. Or an ambulance, perhaps, collects them from airside. How do they get in and out of the country? I mean, what is that? Because it'd be quite a good way. You could fake it, couldn't you, and smuggle yourself in? That would be quite a clever way of doing things. Although pretty patella. Probably send you to Rwanda if you did that. I shall try and find a shorter time. How do you do? What happens? There you go. You heard the question, so I need an answer to that. What happens if you are in the middle of a medical emergency when you land and they spirit you straight to hospital? How do they check your passport and your papers? How many moles does it take to make a molehill? Is it 1 mol or is it lots of moles? Why are the flies on the opening of a gentleman's trousers? Flies. Are there any such things as benign viruses? Viruses might make you feel better than you would if you weren't infected. And why do we refer to recently deceased people as late Yanny's in Battersea. Yanny, what have you got? Question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Yanny. So it's on the virus question. Oh, yes. So as far as I'm aware, viruses don't try and make you feel good or bad, it's basically them taking over your cells and systems to reproduce and also your immune system then hitting them. That makes you feel bad. So that's what, that's what fundamentally viruses do. So it's not as if. It's not as if they would be able to inject you with something that will probably feel good. Now, an interesting point that your caller made about bacteriophages, that they fail, they do kill bacteria, but they also do contribute to something which is called lateral gene transfer and in fact, bacteria more harmful in the past. Right, quite. He was on the right lines, or at least, but it would still not be a benign virus, as it were, in terms of how it makes you feel. They're bacteria, viruses. They. Their host is a bacteria, it's not us, they just happen to cohabit us. Qualifications? I'm a PhD in molecular biology. James, that'll do nicely. So you've already got your PhD, so it's actually Doctor Yanni. It is, yeah. Well, thank you, Doctor Yanny. Round of applause. Nicely done. Tracy's in Tunbridge Wells. Tracy, question or answer? It's an answer, please carry on. It's about the fly. Yes. Well, it comes from the fly. It comes from a flagpole where you fly a flag that it's on a pole and the flag flies, so the zipper resembles the pole and the tag on the end that you use to pull it up and down is the flag. So that's where it gets his name. So it's like flying, if you see what I mean. Really? This is, this is true. You, what are your qualifications? That's it. That's, that's it. What are your qualifications? Well, I work in fashion, but I like all of these kind of little things that come about because of something else. I like this a lot, this kind of fashion y thing. I don't think you're right. I am 100% right. I'm actually. I thought I was going to remember the answer while the question was being asked and I've actually remembered it while you were answering it. What is your answer, James? It was like after they got rid of cod pieces, they had little flaps of material covering your bits and that was called a fly, but it's still flapping like on a pole. Did you see what? I think you should stop talking about poles. It's true, James, hanging on to pole, but it's called a fly. So it's like a little flag. Even if it's a flap on something, it's still flying. Do you see what I mean? Yeah, it's flapping like a flames. Well, let your buddy. All right, I will share the round of applause then, because you shouldn't have brought poles into it. It's got nothing to do with poles, it's got nothing to do with polls. There's no poll involved. It's a flap over them. No, no, James, James, it's just. It resembles. It reminds one of this, if you see what I mean. It's just an association, a flap of cloth that goes over the. You're seeing the flap of cloth. I'm talking about a zipper, James, with a little tag on the end that you use to pull up and down. No, but it was called. It's called a flop on the end of something to close something. It comes from this flapping. No, the zipper is named after. The zipper is. No, the zipper is a fly because the flap of. The flap of cloth was called a fly and they kept the name the same when it became a zipper. I'm so exhausted. Yeah, you're not the only one. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you, James. Otherwise you're never going to stop talking. No, I won't, I won't. Okay, thank you. Bye bye bye. Kevin's at Heathrow. Kevin Questioner. Oh, lord sake. I've got an answer for you, sir. Carry on. A medical emergency. The pilot would put out a pan call pan Pam. He would get priority for landing on arrival at the airport you'll be met by the border force and the police. And the police and the border force would check the documents of the person on the plane before they're removed. Perfectly done. Qualifications flight paramedic with medical and rescue at Heathrow airport. I'll get in. Round of applause for Kevin. Matt's in Teddington. Matt, question or answer? Answer please, James, quickly please. Thank you. Late it seemed to you. Touched on it. It used to be old English for recently, but not anymore. So later this parish or somebody who's left the parish, I mean that I'm a funeral ranger flipping out. I could be giving out Rayleigh Otas at the moment, but I'm going to squeeze them in. And a round of applause for Matt. And finally Ian is in. Kingsley. Question or answer, Ian? Answer, James, quickly. Molehills. One molehill is created by 1 mol. They have a territory which they dig tunnels to get worms, which they feed from, and they push up the soil from the tunnel. So how many moles does it take? A molehill? Answer, one. Qualifications? Pest control technician. Have my own company doing pest control. Round of applause for you. There we go. Oh, deary me. That was a good one. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. You may have already detected Sheila Fogancy's presence in the studio but I can confirm the fly caller. Just a moment. That whole exchange was like a bad first date. Yes, it was a bit. Yeah. Yeah, it was a bit. You know, I felt like the person at the next table thinking, oh, my God, give it up now. That was nice. I tell you what, if it had been, I'd have gone to the gents and climbed out the window. I'd have joined you. That's no offense to Tracy. No, no. I mean the conversation generally. It was very funny. Thank you.