Why don't ducks get frostbite?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien, welcome. Mystery Hour, four minutes after twelve is the time, and this is your weekly opportunity to achieve the source of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial, or indeed anywhere else in your life. Because there are so many very clever and informed people listening to this program that they will be able to answer whatever query it is you, you have. It's fun. It is a game. It's the nearest we ever get, really, on the program, to sort of messing about. But it does have a serious purpose. It was conceived as an attempt to celebrate education long before. Actually, it shows how long we've been doing it, long before you could google everything. Everything. You could already find answers to questions via technology that would once have demanded a degree of knowledge or an ability to actually use reference books. And part of me misses that world. Although I acknowledge that we are progressing away from it, I still want to. I do this as a parent, celebrate knowledge. Knowing stuff is just good, especially if you're conversing with people or debating knowledge is really, really good and it will come back into fashion again, even though it's at our fingertips. In terms. I mean, another example today, you know, for me, the best example of how we've denigrated knowledge and expertise to an unbelievable degree is the tragic case of little Charlie Guard, who got sort of his calls taken up by chances and. And spivs to the point where people were sending death threats to doctors at the best children's hospital in the world because they'd been persuaded by these popping jays that the doctors didn't have the boys best interests at heart. That's where anti intellectualism leads you. And you see it a bit today with the security services, who aren't obviously an intellectual body. But the idea that you watching the news, especially if Russia today is part of your diet, might end up with a better idea of what's gone on in Salisbury than the security services and the government have done. And, no, I appreciate they don't always tell us the truth. It does rather suggest that we're living in a country now where there's no point having qualifications to do jobs or speak. You'll all be going to the supermarket next time you need a doctor's appointment if we carry on like this. So that's why I like knowledge, although that's a slightly highfalutin way. Oh, thank God for that. The first question I don't need now to backtrack and explain how it's actually quite funny. The first question will do that for us. The number you need is zero 345-606-0973 it's a fairly straightforward exercise in celebrating knowledge. You ring in with a question that needs an answer, somebody else rings in with the required answer. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number. 1207 is the time. Ian is in Redhill. Ian, question or answer? Question. James, how you doing? The question is, I live next to a couple of lakes, and obviously, with this really, really cold weather we've been having, they've all frozen over, thawed now, but while they were frozen, all of the ducks and swans and geese and everything was sat on top and for hours and hours and hours at a time. Overnight, obviously. And my question is, if you or I were to do it, we would get frostbite and wouldn't be able to move our feet. Why doesn't that happen to them? It's not just ducks, it's all birds. Or most birds. Many, many, many other birds. I see ducks down there. Oh, penguins mate, think about pain. I think it's cold for the ducks where you are. What about the penguins? The whole lot. They're warm blooded animals. They presume, you know, they've got feeling in their feet, which means there's nerves and all of that. So do you know why I know this? It has been asked before. It's a bit of a hardy perennial, but I like it. And my explanation of it is probably going to offend the biologists and the veterinarians, but it's. Birds have an astonishing blood system, if that's already not an untechnical term. It's almost as if. It's almost as if they've got built in air conditioning. So, you know, our system of pumping blood around our bodies, via the heart, down to our extremities, the veins they have on top of that, they have a sort of really fine arteries. There's a posh latin phrase for it, but I can't remember the word for net. I know it's mirabile, so it's wonderful. Net. Do you know the Latin for net? Where's Jacob Riesmog when you need him? And that carries cold, the cold blood away from the feet and the warm blood down from the heart. So the answer is their blood system. But I've explained it like headmistress of five international schools from Frankfurt. So it's not sort of like they've got some sort of, you know, for want of a better term, antifreeze. In. Correct. You know, in their blood? No, it's nothing in the blood. It's all in how the blood is transported around the body. So the blood from the heart makes its way really quickly through these really fine arteries in a way that. That warms up the blood coming into the vein, the blood that's cooling down in the veins, in their feet, in their extremities. So think of it like a coolant, a cooling system. Air conditioning. Blood conditioning. Blood conditioning system, I would call it. Okay, yes. No. Rete. Rete. R e t e. That's the latin word for net. Rete. Mirabile, my friend. Rete mirabile. Yeah, air conditioning for your feet is what keeps them from freezing, then. Well, no, it's rete mirabilae. Yeah, it's a net of arteries that pumps hot blood around the body in a way that cools the cold blood in the veins. And because it's moving that much more quickly, it doesn't run the risk of cooling itself. When it's next to the veins that are cold, it's pumping back into the heart again. Net is the word you want. Net. Net. It's like a net of arteries that surrounds the veins. I mean, I don't know. I can't do any better. Chinese? No, I know, but I mean, I've eaten chinese food and one of the delicacies is chicken's feet, actually. And having done that, it doesn't appear to be this vast net of arteries within the feet. I mean, they're pretty bony. It's very, very thin skin. I don't know. I'm not. I'm not. I mean, you're not allowed to argue with me. I've just given you biology and Latin. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. To be fair, you don't sound as impressed as I thought you might. No, I'm not. But I'm right. And I remembered the latin words. Well, that's impressive. Jacob Rhys box has a few latin words and people vote to lead the country into economic oblivion. Mirabile. Rete. Mirabilize. What? I said, this is happy times you can't talk about. I'm having a round. No, you're right. I'll park it. I'll take the round of applause instead as we. I promise you. I swear to you. Latin and kind of nets. Colin's in Stafford. Colin. I don't know if I'll be able to scale those dizzy heights of intellectual insight again, but I'll do my best for you. What's your question? If you can answer this, it will Jack. You up a whole notch in my estimation. If you ever watch live football on the tv, on the Sky Sports channels or the BT sports channels. It only happens with football as far as I know. There's a figure of ten or eleven digits appears at random across the top of the tv screen. It normally stays there for several minutes and then just vanishes again. And it reappears several times during the course of a football match. And me, myself and other people, I've never noticed it. Haven't you? No. Are you watching it legally? Yeah, of course. Yeah, absolutely. And it doesn't matter whether it's cable tv or someone's got, you know, the satellite thing on the side of the house, it's the same. So you've got the score of the football match over the left hand side or whatever it is. But this figure, this number of ten to eleven digits just appears. No, I've got no idea. So I'm going to have to stay wherever I was, in your estimation. So you don't know it? I don't know, mate. No. I mean for people who are new to this, I'm not supposed to answer everything. It's just when I've had 2 hours of Brexit I feel the need to flex other muscles. I will try to stop. I mean the idea is someone else will ring in with the answer. But I was right about the mirabilization. Rete. Rete. Miraculously, I imagine what you've described has something to do with subscriptions and public performances. You know how you get the pint pot in the. Yeah, maybe because they've got to find a way of whether or not a, you've paid for it and b you're allowed to show it to other people in public. But then again, I've just said I'm not going to try and answer everything and I've just offered up a fairly rubbish answer to your question in the same breath. It's certainly. I mean, I pay for mine legitimately. And you've noticed I've never clocked it. All right, you're on. Okay, fair play to you. Fair play to you. Thank you. Colin. 1213 is the time. What's that big long number on the telly when Colin's watching the footy? Ellie is in Camden. Ellie, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. Ellie, why do people. Some people have bad breath in the morning and some people don't have bad breath even though they wash their teeth at the same time, eat the same food. I don't know if you ate exactly the same food. You'd have a big distinction between two different people. If you had something really pungent, like garlic, I think you'd know about it, whoever it was. But usually. Oh, mate, I'm supposed to not be answering stuff. And you've given me an open goal. Me and my boyfriend, we eat the same food every night and we wash our teeth at the same time. He's rancid. It's the other way around. It's you, Ellie. You're the one with a breath like the bottom of a budgie cage every morning. It's not that bad, but it's not pleasant. And he. I mean, to me, he. His brush smells fine, obviously. We both wash our teeth and brush our teeth in the morning. Then the chances are that you might have some sort of gum disease or. So, just to be clear, you've asked your dentist already and then you thought, you drink meat, your face is touching. I said. I said, is there anything wrong with my gums? And he said, no, they look fine. I said, why have I got my breath? I just. This was a while ago. Yeah. And what did he say? Well, he gave me some antibiotics, but nothing happened. Well, I mean, I can't really. I'm not even. I'm not going to cast myself as more knowledgeable about gobs than your dentist. I know. I was just wondering if somebody out there is, you know. You're on. Okay. No, you're on. All right. Bad breath. Um. Why? No, you're welcome. Although I'm not sure, once you've ruled out food that there's much left except some sort of infection or disease or a sort of rotting tooth. But you'd know about that. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I have to say, it's. It's chilling. That video of the Nottingham Trent university student, um, just recording the racist abuse that was being shouted outside her door in our university halls of residence. Um, I kind of saw it on Twitter earlier and it didn't register properly. I don't know why, I was probably a bit distracted. You should dig that story out. It's shocking. Absolutely shocking. Back to mystery, 19 minutes after twelve. The viewing card number. Oh, I've just given away the answer. Oops. I'll pretend I didn't say that. What's that number in the corner of Colin's screen when he's watching the footy? And why is it there? And why does Ellie have such bad breath? Hey, she asked the question. I'm not doing her. Even on International Women's Day. I think it's important to respect people equally. If a bloke rang in and described himself as having minging breath, then I wouldn't. I wouldn't sugar the pill when I was reiterating the point of the question. Jane's in Ealing. Jane, happy International Women's Day. Thank you very much, Jane. You're very welcome. Question or answer? It is a question. Yeah. And the question is, what is it in humans, the sort of physiological thing that makes us kind of really hate a squirm or certain sounds like, you know, scratching your nails against the chalkboards. But also, in addition to that, would someone that had never seen someone scrape the nails on a chalkboard feel that as well? Yes. Feel horror? Yes. Or do you have to kind of. I bet that you have to have done it yourself because there are the noises that you can't do, like metal scraping metal that you wouldn't have actually felt yourself like. Why the noises make you cringe. I can understand fear, but I know this. Okay. Probably because we've had it before. I've got such young new colleagues now that the idea of avoiding repetition of questions is becoming impossible, which does two things. I mean, it's good in a way, because it gives the feature a longer life, but it also opens the door to me being able to have a crack at almost everything, because I know this. And so do you, if you think so. Do you, if you think about it. Well, no, because I think I have thought about it. Yeah, but you need a better teacher. I know a woman in Frankfurt who might be able to help you. Okay, go on. I'll repeat it. Okay, ready? What. In evolutionary terms, noises should disturb us the most? If you consider that the most important thing we can do as human beings is reproduce. Animals. No. What should concern us the most or the noise of an animal? No. If our primary evolutionary purpose is to procreate and to create more lives, what should we be evolutionary? Programmed to respond to, to be spooked by, to find really unpleasant to fix? I don't know. It's a crying baby. So fingernails on a blackboard and other similarly high pitched noises hit an identical pitch or are in the same realms of sound as crying babies and also human screams. So that. That's why it sends shivers down your spine so much? No, that's a different. You see, this is where I. This is what I thought about. And that it's not. It's not a fear thing. It's a kind of like. Yeah, it's a discomfort that you that prompts you to act. So if you hear. If you hear a baby screaming in the night, there's something about it that means you can't ignore it in the way that you can ignore a barking dog. If you went to a place and somebody had never heard someone scraping their mouth down a blackboard, mind you, not everyone doesn't like it. I was gonna say, would they? Yeah. They'd react the same. Everyone reacts because everyone who hears it for the first time has never heard it before, and they all. Almost everybody reacts in the same way. Okay. I'm. I think I'm knocking it out the park on mystery hour today, and yet I sense that the people for whom I'm knocking it out the park are not. They're not really properly appreciative. I'm talking about you, Jane. No, thank you. It's an answer of. It's an answer of considerable beauty. I gave the other fellow some actual box fresh Latin, and he went away. All kind of wives. This is the real deal, Jane. Yeah, no, I'm still thinking about it. Frequency is the word I was looking for. It's the same frequency as a baby's cry or a human scream. That's why it happens. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Okay. Again, I'm not. I'm not getting the love that I feel I deserve. I get loads of love. For the 2 hours that we're talking about Brexit, I'm not getting any love at all during mystery hour. What's going on? I need love. Mohammed Zinharo. Mohammed. Question or answer? Afternoon, James. Thanks for taking my call. It's a question. Yes. The question is, why are the sinks smaller in disabled toilets than usual? Because you only ever use it one at a time. Is that answer? Well? No. That's. No. I'm being. I'm leaving that on the board. Why do you want to know? I just need to know because every time I use disabled toilet, the sink is too small and I need to know. Somebody should answer me this question. Have you got very large hands? Not really. And are you disabled, if you don't mind me asking? Yes, I am, yeah. Okay. I just want to clarify that before we opened up a whole box of controversy that we don't need. And do you find it restrictive, the size of the sink in the average disabled toilet? You know why? I do. I do find it difficult because it's not fair. You just make the whole floor. It's just basically horrible. Wet, everything. That's no fun, is it? I imagine the answer is that they get away with the smallest that they can, according to building regulations. But I'm going to leave it on the board because I've been a bit cocky today, trying to answer everything. Why are the sinks in Mohammed's disabled toilet so small? Um, and what can we do about it? 25 minutes after twelve is the time John is in. Burton. John, question or answer? Hi. Um, it's a stewards collaboration. I would call it very diplomatic. Yes. Carry on with your stewards collaboration. Um, basically, regarding the ducks and ducks standing on ponds, I'd like to talk about penguins, if I may. Rete mirabile, mate. Rete mirabile? Yeah. Um, mino speak or Latin. Um, basically what I'm saying, what I'm thinking is you went on to talk about restricting of blood flow and kind of the capillary action and all that sort of thing. No, I never used any of those words because they're too technical. All I talked about was some. I might have said capillaries, actually, but some, like tiny, tiny veins pumping blood around much faster than the big veins, so that the warm blood from the heart can make its way to where the cold blood in the big veins is and make sure that nothing ever freezes. I might have to upgrade it to an inquiry, then. Come on, then. That's fighting talking. There are two mechanisms which basically are involved. There's the one where it restricts blood flow to the feet, because obviously they're cold and they don't want too much blood going there. That's penguins. It's a very similar thing among most avian species. Mirabile. Rete. Rete. Mirabile. Ducks. He was asking about. Okay, well, the point is what they have inside the lakes, they have a vein going down which contains warm blood, and a vein going down which contains hot blood. Sorry, blood. They know matter that contains hot blood. And what we've got is a counter current heat exchange which transfers the. At the top of one it transfers the heat from one side to the other, and at the bottom of the other one, it transfers cold blood from the other side to the other one. So the hot blood, by the time it gets down there is probably only two or three degrees. Yes. And then warm blood transfers from the other, from that one to the other one. I think that sounds more right than I was, but I was right. How is the degree of. Yeah, I do believe I'm going to give you a round of applause because I've been hogging them myself. But to be honest, I think if you haven't been paying attention. If you say stuff in Latin, you're just right and you get unchallenged. It does help a little bit. I try that sometimes. Maya culpa. Yeah. That's why almost every animal has a less implantification. Very true. Round of applause. What are your qualifications? Qualifications? I have a marine biology degree, but I've also read a book by new scientists which is entitled why don't penguins feet freeze? And I would. We've tried to get through the whole of this question without anybody mentioning that and you've just blown it in the final hurdle. Well, I'm sorry. I would recommend it, but I didn't. It's a very, very good book. It's a very good book. Natalie is in Dagenham. Natalie, question or answer? Question. Yes. Where does the saying fast asleep come from? The same place as stuck fast comes from. Just me. I've never heard of that one. Rubbish. What was it? Stuck fast. You're stuck fast in that hole. You are stuck fast. Stuck as in stuck stick. Stuck. Stuck fast. I've never heard of that. How old are you? 44. You have lived for 44 years in these islands and you've never heard the phrase stuck fast? No. Stuck. Yeah, I'm stuck. Yeah, stuck far. If you're really stuck. If you're really stuck, what are you? You're stuck fast. Where are you fast? How can you be stuck fast? It doesn't mean fast as in quick. It's an old english word with a different meaning. It means it's closest thing to very. So if you're asleep, you're asleep. If you're fast asleep, you're very asleep. If you start. What if you're fast asleep? Yeah, you're sound o. Not fast asleep, you're sound o your sound. Oh, well, I don't know what that means. See, I didn't know what that fast means. What sound? O. Sound. Oh, as in sound asleep? Yes. Yeah. Well, sound asleep and fast asleep mean the same thing. What part of it is far? It means very. It's Anglo Saxon. So that's not a good question, then, is it? It's a brilliant question. It's an even better. It's an even better answer. To think, you think of another one. Is there another one? There's three people working on this program, doing all the heavy lifting myself. Stuck fast. Fast asleep. Another use of fast meaning extremely or very that Natalie might have come across in her 44 years on this earth. Come on, help me out. Come on, help her out. Help a lady out. Fast, anyone? Fast. Fast. Steadfast. No, that doesn't work. Stop saying silly words in. You've never heard of steadfast? What are the schools like in Dagenham? I grew up in Wolfram's, though. That'd be terrible. Give her a round of applause. She didn't even ring him with an answer. He's coming up to 12:30. I can't remember the name of the lovely chap who studies. He hasn't been at his books as much lately. I think he's been busy with work. But there is a lovely bloke who studies ancient english languages. British languages. He'll know. But I think I was right. Number you need zero 345-606-0973 if you've got a question. Or if you can answer any of the questions about Mohammed sink Ellie's bad breath Collins Sky Sports. Or maybe that last question about fast. Yeah, that's on the board as well. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. A mystery hour continues apace. Bad breath halitosis. Ellie and her boyfriend have identical diet and identical dental hygiene regimes. Why does she wake up with a mouth like the bottom of a birdcage? Zero. 345-606-0973 Mohammed, who is disabled. I think I've worked this one out. I should have asked you what your disability was. Wants to know why the sinks in disabled toilets are always so small. And that. That word fast. That was really interesting, actually. I hope someone does ring in to improve upon my answer. I didn't take a round of applause on it. I gave a round of applause to the lady that asked the question because she was ace. But that stays on the board as well. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of them. And of course, the mystery of Collins football viewing. Graham's in Southgate. Graham, question or answer, Steve? I have answer. Carry on, mate. It's. The dots on the left hand side of tvs is normally a queue for an advert so that they don't have to. No, that's not what he meant. I mean, you're right, but that's not what he was talking about. He was talking about a twelve digit number. It's a series of colors and numbers. No, the twelve digit number is. I mean, I know what it is now because someone's emailed me. Get Leon quickly. Can we get Leon in stock? I mean, no offense, mate, because I understand what you mean. It used to be an indicator to the gallery that there was an advert coming up or that kind of thing. But that's not what he was talking about. Largely because he was talking about football, which is the longest stretch, typically just on sky, for example. It's just a sign that this is protected. That's the pint pot. Yeah. Yeah. That again. It's a twelve digit number. He wants to know why it pops up on his screen while he's watching the football. He's got smart tv. It's not. It's not. I know. I know the answer. I'm going to leave it on the board, mate. Thank you. Thank you for playing. I was about to say, but no cigar. John's in reading. John. Question or answer? Question. So it's a war question. Okay. Right. I was looking for historians on this. Do you always see like the. Sorry about echo in background, like the Napoleon wars. And you see like the musket lines firing against each other in battle. Yeah. And in between, you see like the musician, but on either side playing the musician. Pipers. Yeah. The drummer. Was there an amnesty not to fire each other's musicians? Oh, I like that. We've only ever seen reenactments of these ancient battles. Of course, we've never actually seen them in reality. But if they're. If they're done fairly accurately, then is there special deal for the musicians that they don't get blown up? Yeah. It's a nice question. I like it a lot, actually. I mean. Yeah. Yeah. We've all seen it. We've all seen enough to recognize the pertinence of the question. Flag bearers. I mean, capturing. Capturing the flag was like a big deal in battle, but more so. More so in the era of hand to hand combat. And also in pre gunpowder, wasn't it? Post gunpowder. You still have pageantry. But why don't they get blown up first? Maybe they did. Maybe it was. Maybe it was a really rubbish job. Maybe they get in close combat. They hit each other. Flutes trumpet around the back of the head. 1239 is the time. Help John out, dude. Musicians in battles. Special treatment zero. 345-606-0973 Paul's in Sheffield. Hello, Paul. Question or answer? Good morning, James. I hope it's an answer for you. Let's find out. The lady with the bad breath. You're a nurse, if memory serves. Yes, but I've always had. I've had this condition as well. Oh, dear. Yeah. And it's to do with something called VSC. And it's volatile sulfur compounds and brushing really just. It helps. And mouthwash. It just helps to mask it, really. We've got to get a specialist mouthwash. If you. If you've got it, there's not a lot you can do about. It's not to do with diet or dental hygiene. It's. It's bad luck. Volatile sulfur compounds. Yes, but the good news is there is a product out there to help. I won't. I won't mention it, obviously, but why not? Well, it's an unflavored. Malcolm, come on, what's it called? I can't remember. You're being all coy then. I know how commercial radio works. If I mention anything, any proprietary brand name, then James will be duty bound to say something like, other brands are available. You were just covering up the fact that you couldn't remember your big. Jesse. I'm really sorry, dear. That's quite all right. You've caught me out. That's all right. But I think you're right because you've reminded me of an odd episode from my youth. Paul, would you like to hear it or not? You're cool. I certainly would. I was at the english speaking Union international public speaking awards and I was representing the United Kingdom, having become the national champion. And there was a. I think I was there. James, are you being serious? No. There was a canadian girl there who was absolutely gorgeous. I mean, you would not believe how pretty she was. I was about 1617 at the time and she invited me and my mate Sam out for dinner afterwards. And so we told our house master that we were. Because we were down in London from school, we went out for dinner. About halfway through dinner, it became clear, inexplicably that she'd taken quite a serious shine to me, this beautiful, beautiful canadian girl. But she had breath that you wouldn't believe. And it was breath like a lion. What? Breath like a lion. Breath like a lion, mate. And it seemed so unfair. And she obviously knew that she had a condition because she was chomping in between courses on cinnamon flavored tuning gum. So I can't remember her name, but my God, I hope she's found that mouthwash you can't remember the name of. Paul? It's all I can say, James. It's. Now it's widely available wide, so if you go into boots or any other chemist, you've got it. And I'm not going to do it, but I think I've second guess you're disabled one as well. Yeah, I think. I think I have as well. Let's go. Boom. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Shams is in the city. Shams. What's going on question or answer? Hi, James. Yes, mate. It takes all sorts. It's International Women's Day. Be kind. Anyway, I'm a very arrogant little man. You arrogant little man. So, Anton deck, during the last time. He's a very little man. He's an arrogant little man. Carry on, shams. What have you got for me that made my week? My daughter studying art at school. She came home, she said that before the Renaissance, they couldn't draw with the perspective. All the paintings and everything is very flat if you haven't looked. Yeah, but during the Renaissance, they discovered that you could draw with a perspective. The buildings disappearing into. Into the horizon, etcetera. I thought, wonderful, great, she's learned something. Then I sat back and asked her, well, hang on, how did they draw the pyramids and all the buildings prior to that? Prior to the Renaissance, if no one could draw with a perspective, does that make sense? Up to a point. And the point, I'm not sure. Well, if you look at the pictures. I was about to say that the dark ages saw us forget a lot of stuff and the Renaissance was the. Was the. Was what came out the back of the dark ages. But then I was about to think about Egypt because you mentioned the pyramids and they were just still doing. Flipping hieroglyphics and cave paintings and yet at the same time they meant, oh, no, it's because aliens built the pyramids, mate. If you look at the paintings and the drawings prior to the Renaissance, they are very flat. There is. Everything's flat. Faces, houses, even the tapestry, the bone tapestry. There's no perspective to anything prior to that. But you don't need a perspective. I just say that we're going to build a whopping great pyramid, mate. And you say, what's a pyramid? And I say, well, imagine a square. Right, okay. But you've got to visualize it. No, I don't. I'm just going to tell all the slaves what to do. Go and get me some bricks. Stick that one there. Boom. Bang. Bosch. You've got a kind of early prehistory foreman, site foreman. You mind? You need pictures of a pyramid. It's a fairly straightforward shape. No, it's not. Okay. The pyramids may be one thing. What about the churches and the other places of worship? The great? So what? Architects doing stuff that artists couldn't do is the great, and that seems unlikely. And the question takes a whole new life, then. Okay, well, thank you, James. I like it. I'll always be in your deck, Shams. You know that, mate. Can we not. Can we just move on? No, of course we can. Yeah. You're so lucky that happened before everything I did go. Started going viral. Yeah, I know. Otherwise I'm not going to say any more than that. All right. All right, cool. All right. What's it called, Bob? What? No. 1244. Is that. That is niche. That is niche, I tell you. Now, let's get an answer to that question for Shams's daughter. Why, if pre renaissance, all drawings were in two dimension, how did they design or build buildings? I like that question because I think it will admit quite an interesting answer. But sometimes when I say that outline, it all goes horribly wrong. Lee's in Stoke on Trent. Just to kick away that question, I think about Colin's television viewing habits. What have you got, Lee? Yeah, so the ten digit number or whatever it is up in the corner, it's to track people who might be unscrupulously putting it on the Internet. So it's your viewing card number, which means if you did put it on the Internet, they'd be able to actually find you immediately and it stops you from doing streaming or. Absolutely, yeah. And, yeah, and also you touched upon it when you were speaking to the gentleman. The pint glass in the. In the bottom corner when you go into a pub. I've read about pubs that have actually been prosecuted because they've used a domestic subscription rather than a business subscription. Yes, same here, actually. And it can be quite a big chunk of change for a pub that's already struggling to meet its financial obligations. What are your qualifications, Lee? To be honest, it was something that I'd noticed myself. So went away and looked up and then felt rather guilty, because I've been guilty of that in the past. Not since I've had a sky subscription, I have to say. So you had been guilty in the past of posting stuff online that you'd kind of nicked off? I've been guilty of watching it. I've not been guilty of. Okay. I wouldn't know how to change. No, no. What I make. Seriously, I still struggle to program the video recorder. Well played, mate. Round of applause for you. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC, cracking on with mystery. Our questions, still in need of answers, include the. Well, why do we use the word fast in the context of being asleep or stuck? Zero 345-606-0973 did armies of yore give a free pass to the pipers? Because when you see them reenacted or portrayed on film, it's a little confusing that people who are playing music seem to be spared the full brunt of enemy fire. Is there a kind of convention in place? I can't believe I've never thought about that before. And why are sinks in disabled toilets so small? Although that one, I think is quite obvious when you stop and think about it. 1251 is the time. And finally, the question about why, if 3d, if perspective was discovered during the Renaissance in the context of paintings that had a three dimensional effect as opposed to a two dimensional effect, how come they could build buildings again, that. Now that I think about it, no offense to shams, it becomes a little clearer. Grant's in Twickenham. Grant, question or answer, please. Carry on, Grant. It's the quite obvious answer about the toilet. Yeah. The wheelchair can get around easier and also because if you're in a wheelchair, you don't want a massive sink because you might not be able to reach the taps and obviously they're lower. Yeah, yeah. So Mohammed's obviously got a disability that doesn't involve a wheelchair and he's been puzzling about a disabled toilet without having a little think about whether it might have something to do with the sign on the outside. Qualifications. I'm a plumber. That'll do. 1252. Mickey is in Blackburn. Mickey, question or answer? Hi, James. How are you doing? All good, mate. What's on your mind? It's an answer to the fast question. Well, potentially. Right, so potentially. Potentially. As the enemy of mystery hour, Mickey potentially fed actually means to play something. Yeah. So maybe in old English, fast actually meant solid. So to be steadfast is placed solid. It did. It meant. It meant, like, secure. I thought it meant very. But it is, because you say hold fast, stand fast. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's solid. So I think it's actually been colloquialized to mean fast, as in rapid, just like we use sharp to mean fast. If you think of fasten as the root of fast, then you get a better understanding of what you're saying, don't you? Because you fasten something, you make it secure, and after it's been fastened, it is fast. So, yeah, yeah, exactly. Great work, qualification. I think you've done it, but all you've really done is benefited from the fact that I've worked it out from emails and you've. I don't think so. I really. I disagree with that. I wasn't even listening to you. Give me right of the fraud. There's two people that have made me laugh out loud in the last five minutes. One on air and one off air. The one off air was in response to, rather than the actual question itself, which made me smile. How do you open. I know it's a bit late, Charles said, but how do you open a corned beef, Tim, when the key is missing? I'm starving here. And Emma replied, prayer. Failing that, use a blowtorch or a viking. Twitter is like an attendance, like a red button on the program now. So Twitter, obviously, you have to wade through some very odd people on there if you haven't, as I have been able to block or mute them yet. But generally speaking, on my feed rather than the LBC one, it's like a kind of running commentary. An adjunct is the word I'm looking for to the program proper. Carl's in County Durham. Carl, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Carl. It's still with the drummers? Yes. Do they? Why don't they get shot? Well, it's for the films. They would have been kept alive, but in days of yore, they're high value targets. The drummers would beat out the commands on the battlefield, so you would look to take them out first, to limit the communication within the armies. So what about pipers, though? Because drummers serve a military purpose. Well, pipers, they also did. They were stretcher bearers as well, so there was no special dispensation for them at all. No qualifications? Well, there was one. It was at the Battle of Waterloo. It was a french drummer boy, and he was spared because he was eight years old, flipping it. And that was one of the farms that the French were trying to take in the middle of the Waterloo. This is lovely. What are your qualifications? I studied battlefield archaeology at university. Did you? I did, as an undergraduate, yeah. Well, I've graduated now. No, I know, but that was. The whole degree was battlefield archaeology. No, it was a module. I did historic archaeology. I did human bones and battlefield archaeology. Wow. How did you find out about that when you were in the 6th form and I didn't? I wanted a mature student. Oh, fantastic. I think it's wasted on the young university. I wish I could go now. I'd love to go again. I'd love to go now. Do something and pay some flipping attention. But they'd repossess my house by the weekend. Have you managed to employ your degree in working life, or is it just the end in itself? No, there's no real work for battlefield archaeologists. Not particularly, no. After Brexit, mate. After Brexit, it's precisely the sort of industry that we can use to replace some of the business that we're currently doing with the largest thing. No, not during mystery. James, give everyone a Blake. Phil's in Preston. Phil, question or answer? Well, it's a bit of a controversy. I missed a bit of the program. So why. Just heard you ask. No, why? Go on. All right. The thing that you asked about fast, and it was something I looked at a few years ago, because mine. Our laughs. Mine misses. Has a very, very heavy. The accent from South Yorkshire. Right. And her language is littered with these thighs. Those. And she will term you to sleep as being fast on. Yeah. And I looked at this because our area over there, I'm in North Lincolnshire, South Yorkshire area, heavily influenced by the Norse. The Vikings. Yes. So I looked this up and it's norse and it sort of means, like, very or vigorously. So if you are. If you. If you were to pull your cloak around you, you would hold it, but if you wanted it properly there, you would fasten it. Yes. So it was fast. So if it's not very. It means secure. Well, I think it means. I think it really means muchness. No, it doesn't. I've been sent all sorts of links. You're on the right lines, and you're right to say that it's norse, but. But it is. It is. That use of the word fasten is what? What? Pins it down. Not as a very or a much, which is what I originally thought, but as a safe or secure or sound sound would be running securely. Can you. But it's. It. I don't know that the two words are linked. Well, well, well, you see, I looked it up in a Brewers book. I think that it was in the charity shop in our village. I wish I bought it now. Wayne in Basildon's got a copy. You can borrow his. He got about six rounds of applause a few years ago because he went out and bought brewers. Yeah, but is that brewers book, is it just fairies fable or is it entomology? I think it's got a bit while since I opened it, but I think it does entomology as well. Well, no, it would do, because it. Well, it's origins of phrase and fable. So you could look up stuck fast or hold fast, but it may not have fast in there as a answer, but you've got. I'm not going to give you a round of applause either. Oh, yes, I am. For the norse bit. No, you can have it for the norse bit. There you go. Sandra's in Worcester park. Last word, Sandra. Question or answer? Hello, it's an answer. Carry on, Sandra. It's about the idea of perspective drawing being formalized in the Renaissance. And how come they built pyramids without the aid of perspective drawing? Yes. Well, an architect doesn't work with perspective drawing. No, I just realized that. Works with plans. Works with plans, innovations. And they will only do a perspective drawing to sell the idea to a customer. It's no use to the builders. No. They work on plans and elevations which they can read. And presumably, even in pyramid days, they had plans and elevations and they did not need to draw effective drawings. And they had bossy foreman and they had a very bossy foreman and he could read the plans. And without the very clever plans, he couldn't have built the pyramid. So that is why, as an aesthetic entertainment, perspective and art met during the Renaissance. Prior to that, as a functional practice, you were perfectly capable of planning a building without putting it into 3d. Absolutely. But they didn't invent perspective drawing either. Attempts were made at drawing things in perspective. The correct rules weren't formulated. Okay. Until the Renaissance. Qualifications. I'm a trained artist and I talk technical drawing. Did you notice? That's a wonderful qualification. You'll get a round of applause. And I'm late for Sheila Fogarty. But did you notice when Shams and I were discussing the original question, we accidentally engaged in some first class verbal jousting? I was so busy thinking of the answer. No, I didn't. He said, do you know how to build a pyramid? And I said, up to a point. That's terrible. Random. And Phil Cassandra. And that's it from me for another day. How do you build a pyramid up to a point? That's brilliant. That was an accident. Yesterday was not. Here's Sheila Fogarty. Okay, crashing. James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.