Gary is going to call back next week..

Mystery. 50 minutes. My apologies for that, but I thought you'd want to hear the beginnings at least of that speech. Keir Starmer, now shadow Brexit secretary, responding Theo Usher would no doubt providing expert analysis of what, if anything, has changed when Sheila Fogarty assumes the position behind this microphone shortly after 01:00. Before that, let's solve some mysteries. You know how it works. Phone lines are open. They've gone a bit nuts lately, my phone lines, I've got to be honest with you. But from Thursdays twelve till one, they always go a little bit crazy. So give us a call. Zero 345-606-0973 if you know how this feature works, if you don't, bear with me for just a moment and I shall fill you in toot suite. There is almost certainly somewhere in the back of your brain a question that desperately, desperately desires an answer. This is where you might get it. So give us a ring. Ask me, why do we do this? Who's that? Where, when, wherefore, whither, whence, whatever it may be, and then, hopefully, somebody else listening. It sounds rubbish. Every single week, this, by far the most popular feature on the radio station, by far the most popular podcast that we published, by far the most fun I have at work ever. And that includes being a drunk gossip columnist. And yet, when I try to explain it, people come up to me sometimes and say, I love mystery hour. But how do you explain to people what it is? Because I tried to tell my girlfriend why I loved it so much. You just have to listen to it. I don't know why it works. It's a little bit daft, really, but you know those newspaper columns where you write in and ask a question and other readers write in and provide an answer, and it's quite dry sometimes, and a little bit an iraqi. It started off as the radio equivalent of that, and then it just sort of took on a life of its own. The first thing we need is calls. Okay, so, James, why do we do that? Or what is the reason for this? Or where does that come from? Or when that happens? Why does that happen? Who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, and even the occasional wherefore. And then if you hear somebody else asking a question to which you know the answer, ring in and provide it. Don't be dull, don't be boring. Never be boring. Never, ever be boring. Please, never be boring. How do you know whether you're being boring? Well, two ways. Number one, if you're thinking of asking a question to which it's perfectly plausible. Only you will be interested in the answer. It's going to have to be a humding of a question not to be boring for everybody else. Number two, if it's about motoring. If it's about motoring, it's almost certainly too dull for my tastes. And unfortunately the management's decision is final. The only other rule or criteria for exclusion is repetition. So if you ask a question that's already been asked, you probably won't get on the board. Now, the problem with that rule is that the personnel on the team has changed a little since mister hour started and I'm now the longest serving member of mystery hour staff. And my memory, increasingly as I get older, resembles swiss cheese. So it's up to me to remember. That does open the door to the possibility of you ringing in with an answer and me asking you what your qualifications are and you saying, I missed you last week, you doofus. And that is the risk I take every week. And it's the risk I'm taking now. I think that's it, isn't it? Shall we start? David is in Liss. We had David in dis yesterday and today we've got David in Lis. Tomorrow we'll have David, who's a miss. Oh, thanks for laughing, though I don't think it deserved to chuckle that actually, once it reached. Once it reached the ether. What's your question or answer, David? It's a question, James. Carry on. I have in my hand a sharp calculator, model El 8146, which I purchased in 1983. What a time to be alive. Now, admittedly, I only use it about five minutes a month. I'm old fashioned when it comes to bank statements. I check them quite right too. So I only use it five minutes a month. But it's still got the original batteries that came in the box with it. Now that was coming up for 34, 35 years ago. They're not rechargeable, they're just the sharp batteries that came with it. And I just don't know how that's possible. That's one of the most incredible things I've ever heard. Well, I'm not kidding you, honestly. I mean, do you live alone? It astounds me. Every month. 1980. 319 83. A sharp El 8146. And all you've ever used it for since 1983, all you've ever used it for since 1983 is the monthly tallying up of your bank statement. I used it a bit more often than that when I first got it at work. Okay, but I'd say in the last 20 years, all it's been used for is five minutes a month doing my bank statement. But it's still got the same batteries in it and they still work fine. That's quite astonishing. And you just want to know why. I mean, why would they have run out? The short answer is because you haven't used it enough. Well, yeah, but if you buy batteries, I mean, they have on them best before, you know, 2020 or something like that. I'm sure if I bought a packet of batteries in 1983 and I open them now, I expect they'd be as dead as a dodo. I do as well. I know it's quite an incredible piece of information. I have a slight fear of turning into Alan Partridge now and saying, has anybody got any batteries even older than David? Give me a ring now on north Norfolk digital radio. But I don't. I don't think we'll do that. Can you just do me a favor? I just want to check something. Yeah, can you. Have you got the calculator there? I have. Can you just. Can you just put the number foot, press five. Hang on, I've got turning on five. Yeah. 88008. Turn it upside down. Is this a joke or something? No, turn it upside down. Yeah, I'm turning upside down. What does it say? It says 80085. No, in letters, mate. What does it say? Look at it like a word. Hang on. Oh, goodness me. Oh, it does, doesn't it? I'm not allowed to say that. It says boobs. I gotta get you an answer if it kills me. This is LBC 20 minutes after twelve. Still chuckling. I am, mister still underway. If you want to get involved, you've got a fairly clear idea of how it works by now. And, of course, you've probably also had your first guarantee. Realize I've got some rather grim breaking news for you. It always hits you harder when you know the town, doesn't it, where something's happened. A mother and her son have died after being stabbed in their home in Stourbridge. We've just heard from West Midlands police. More on that later in the day. My apologies for bringing you such grim tidings, but, hey, it's got to be done. 21 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC will crack on, I think. Only one question needing an answer. David, bless him, how come the batteries in his calculator that he bought in 1983 haven't run out? How remarkable is that? I don't know what the actual question is. You were sort of saying, what's going on. Really? Mark's in Walthamstone. Mark, question or answer a question. James. Good afternoon. Hello. The devil. Satan? Yes. Number of the beast. 666. Well, what's all that about? Why's he got a number nobody else has? So that you would know him. So you'd know who it was. It was like a mark of the beast on his forehead. Why six? Yeah, but why? How? Boo. Origins of the. Well, I. Off the top of my head, seven is the perfect number, right? Not the magic number, because that, as you know, as a Della Sol fan, is three. Whoosh. So just short of perfection is the reason why six. Why there's three, six, I don't know. Do I, Mark? You would. Do I? No, you're absolutely right. It's got something to do with seven, but you're not going to take that as an answer. And if you do, frankly, man, you're a fool. Thank you, James. Are you. Are you. Are you near a waterfall at the moment? No, I'm on a bus. James, did you laugh out loud during the last call? David's call about calculators? Yes. James. Carry on, Mark. Charmian is in Kenley. Charmian, question or answer? Question. Good afternoon. Hello. Hi. Hello. My question to you. I was teaching my ten year old how to play cards. Oh, yes. And there were some jokers in them. Explain to me, could someone just tell me why they're. Why are they jokers in a pack of playing cards? Yes. Any idea? Yes, it's to do with Tarot. It's from when they were used as, uh. As tarot cards as well as you like. Use them to tell the future as well as to play games with. You're not going to buy that either, are you? No, I'm not. No. That's fair enough. What? Go on. Gone. Well, I think that's actually the answer, but I didn't really sell it. Right. It should be like that fellow who rang in earlier saying, you can just say all the bad stuff in a really upbeat voice and then it will sound a lot more cheerful. So. Yeah, he should sound more sure than that. Yeah. Hang on. Anyway, I'll tell you in a minute. Can I have another go? Can I have another go? No, no, no. One answer. What? One correct answer. It's the same answer. I'm just going to say it. I'm going to say it in a more persuasive way so, you know, it's like Brexit. Ready? What you'll find. What you'll find. Charmian. Is that the. No. The existence of the jokers in the traditional pack of playing cards harks back to the days when said playing cards were utilized in a form of fortune telling, most commonly referred to as tarot. But before the tarot achieved its own nomenclature, it employed the extant card based imagery containing the jokers to which you refer. I stopped listening already. I've got a cake to make. Got a cake to make. What sort of cake are you baking? What sort of cake are you making? Chocolate. A client's waiting for it. Blimey. Well, I will keep. I will detain you no longer. I will find out why. Jokers. Our impacts of cards. Xiaomi and a professional cake baker, 24 minutes. You should do me a Boris Johnson cake, one that I can eat and also have at the same time. Nixon, Whitechapel, Nick. Question or answer? Question, please. James. Nice to talk to you. Likewise. What have you got? Why are all crosswords symmetrical? They're not all symmetrical. It's just easier to work off an established grid, isn't it? No, I think they all are. Once you notice that, you've got some papers there. I'm sure. Have a look. Worse. Luckily. Either vertically or diagonally. Sometimes diagonally. Yeah, you're right. You're right. That's a nice question. A friend of mine used to set crosswords. She's an internationally renowned author now, but it's part of the reason her vocabulary is so incredible. Are you a. You're an enthusiast? Not hugely. I can only do the easy ones. I can't do cryptic. I'll do the cryptics, mate. I'm sort of, you know, well past the halfway mark, probably now. And I've never got the hang of the cryptics. No. But I always think when I. When I first noticed it. Yeah. I thought they must be making it more difficult for themselves, because if they've got to fill in, say they think they just fill in the words, and then. And then the grid would sort of make itself. But if they're working from an established grid, they've got to find words that fit. I like that question. I'm sure I've got a listener who's quite a senior, sort of quite. Quite big in the world across words, but I just. I don't know whether they'll be tuned in today. I'll find out for you why crosswords symmetrical? Great. Thank you. No, thank you. Next, a lovely question. Symmetrical crosswords, jokers, the number of the beast and David. David's. David's rude calculator Charlie is in Woolwich. Charlie, question or answer. Hi, James. It's an answer. Bring it on, mate. It's to the number of the satan's number being 666. Yeah. What a show, mate. He was right with the six being short of perfection and then it's just simply three times for emphasis. So what, why is seven perfection? Do we know? Um, I think that was the number that was given to God, wasn't it? Something like that. What are your qualifications? I've just studied the Bible over the years. I. I think you've got it. I really do. I was kind of hoping, because really, you haven't said it much more than what I said. No, it was just the emphasis part. You know, you was right with the number six being short of. Yeah, but if they wanted, then there should be five sixes. They should have emphasized it even more. It's the flipping devil we're talking about. The Bible itself says that something is said three times for emphasis. Really? Yeah. What do you reckon, guys? Axel's not impressed, Charlie? Oh, come on, James. Okay, it's not my decision. It's a deck. This is democracy, mate. Honestly, it's the will of the will of the people. Someone else rings up with a similar answer, any. Can I share that? Can I share? You can have a little bit of it, but I just think we need a little bit more. I don't think so, James. I thought you was in charge of this show. What are you asking other people? How dare you suggest I'm in charge of this show? I am a democrat, Charlie. I believe in the will of the people. Can we give him a bit of a bit of an applause? He's not. Come on, mate. I am actually in charge despite this sort of display of alleged him, but give him a snatch. There you go, Charlie. Spare than nothing. It's bad, but I can't let you have that. You just repeat what I said and added the word emphasis. You added emphasis. 27 minutes after twelve, Slavin is in Bexley Heath. Slaving. Question or answer? Yeah, I would like to know. Penny with Penny dropped. Penny drop moment. What is that all about? With the launch of the new pound coin and Brexit and Penny dropping all over the place. Where did it come from? I mean, you know what it means. I do know what it means, but where is that first penny that dropped? And people are. I know what, we're going to use that from now on to use it as a penny drop moment. Yes. So for people who don't know what it means, it means the moment when somebody finally realizes something so he thought that Brexit was a brilliant idea, and then the penny dropped, for example. Where it comes from is almost certainly games, isn't it? It's almost certainly when you put a penny in the slot, and when it drops, the machine starts working. Oh, are you sure about that? No, but I'm going to pass it off as gospel truth, my friend. Well, okay, you're the boss. It's your program. Are you in charge? No, I'm not. No, no, no, no. We live the people, Slavin. I will wait for someone else. I need someone to go definitive because I don't have any qualifications. I just sort of guess I've just plucked it from the ether. It makes a lot of sense. Might have toilet doors. Might have something to do with toilet doors. Spending a penny. The penny drops. You can go in, you can go to the loo. But that's a lovely question, Slavin. It's a phrase I use a lot on the program. If Axel was on the ball, he'd have inserted the actual sound effect there. When you asked the question that I made him get out of the archives a few weeks ago, provided by Chris Evans, that sound effect, he sent it over on Twitter. I don't know what Axel's done with it, but there you go. That moment's passed. Do I go to battle or do I wait until after the news? Bevel, how long do you need? Uh, 10 seconds. Question. Go on. Question or answer? Answer, mate. Uh, it's about the number of the bees. Yeah, some. Some recent research was done about it not long ago. Um, apparently it's the phonetic way of written, writing down the name of Julius Caesar as well. I was supposed to be some jewish, um, like a riddle or something like that. I'm going to give you the other half of the last round of applause. All righty. Thank you. No, you're welcome. But that's not a definitive answer to why the number of the beast is 666. It's 12:30 Simon Conway is here with the headlines. The bodies of five people have been found with the wreckage. 1234 is the time. Mystery area is underway. I think Pavel might have nailed it, actually, on that. Weirdly, the Nero Caesar line about 666 is one of the prevalent theories. So I don't know if we'll leave that one on the board. Why across world? I think we will. Why are crosswords symmetrical? How come David's calculator still works? He's bought it in 1983. He's used it every month since. Not for very long, but he's never changed the batteries. It's not solar powered. Clever clogs. He gave us the model number to prove that. And why do we have jokers? Impacts of cards. Nice questions. I think a couple of them might actually have been done before, but, hey, no one's keeping count. David is in Holloway. David, question or answer? You've just stomped all over my answer. Because I was going to say David's rude calculator was solar powered. Oh, man, I didn't know that. Sorry. I could have had a bit of fun with you. Well, you could have, but I didn't. I blew it. I shot your fox. I can't believe they put you through. Who put you through? Who did you speak to? Do you know? I don't know, but can I redeem myself? I don't know. What have you got in mind? You told me about seven years ago that I asked you your favorite question of all time about staples and staplers. Do you remember that? I vaguely do, but they might have been overtaken. Okay, what was it? You know how staples have. Oh, this is breaking the rules here. I'm asking. No, but it's just a bit of fun. It's Brexit, Britain. No rules anymore. Plate that bend the staple for you. That plate turns around and bends the staple. Yeah, and I wanted to know why, because no one ever uses it. But we got you an answer, didn't we? You did, yeah. It was a very exciting time for me. What was the answer again? A guy who was around in the second world war settle was because when they presented papers, they had to be able to. To take pages off. And it was just easier that way, I think. Or something like that. It'll be in the archive. It'll be in the archive on the best questions of all time. Definitely. And did you. Have we not spoken since. Is this the second time in seven years that we've spoken? Oh, no, I've spoken to you on different subjects. Okay, good, because I was going to ask how you were. How you've been, that kind of thing. Thanks for asking. Have a great day. You too. Cheers. You didn't do anything. Why don't you give him a round of applause? It wasn't solar powered. It's a flipping battery powered calculator. That was the whole point. Aaron is in chisik. Aaron, question or answer? Answer. James. Good day, sir. Good day to you, too. What have you got? Thank you. It's the 666. It was nothing actually to do with Julius Caesar. In the Bible, by numerology, the word number six stands for man. Okay? The number six stands for man. So, for example, God created man on the 6th day. You only could work for six days as a man. And a hebrew servant will be freed after six years, to give you some examples. Okay? So the triple six is the pathology, patience of evil, because man is referred to as evil in the Bible. So you put a three times six on it, because the devil is the personification of evil. That's where it comes from. You're quite right on seven. Seven being the perfecting number of God. Twelve to buttress the point. Twelve in the Bible, the number of government, and, for example, twelve on the jury, and so so on and so forth. So the six, James. A triple six is the personification of evil as the devil is. Well, it's. I think we've just got competing theories then, because the Nero Caesar stuff has a lot of support and there's even another school of thought that says it's a. It's a kind of historical typographic error, and it's 616. That if you translate it into the greek 616 as opposed to 616. But I'm going to give you a round of applause because it may well turn out to be one of those ones where nobody knows. Thank you, sir, but I just picked one of the Greeks, I just have to correct you in the greek 616, because the Old Testament wasn't written in Greek, it was in Hebrew. The New Testament was written in Greek. But that's. I think that might be where the error came in when it was translated from Hebrew into Greek. But the Old Testament wasn't translated into Greek. All right, give me another round of applause. It's all right, except when I get corrected live on air. Thank God it doesn't happen very often. Professor Martin is here, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex, one of our resident experts, because this program has not had enough of experts. What have you got for me, professor? It's the answer to your battery question. Yes, 1983. Yes. It can't be an led light emitting diode display, because they take too much current. So it must be an lcd liquid crystal display. Take a very, very tiny amount of current. But the odd thing about batteries is if you take a little current, they last longer than. If you take no current, longer than the actual shelf life. And if he's kept it in a low humidity environment, a low temperature environment, the self discharge will be, if I can use that phrase, very, very low indeed. And the other factor is manufacturers of devices get the choice of the quality batteries. So if you were to replace those batteries, they almost certainly wouldn't last as long as the batteries that you get in the original piece of equipment. So you're not that amazed by his 1983 batteries. It's pretty good, pretty exceptional. I would expect 1015 years, but 30, that's pretty. He's only using it once a month to do his bank statement, just to talk. So five minutes a month. And that would keep it ticking over, so to speak. Yes, it's. It's actually better than having no current taken. So if he'd left it in his draw, it probably would have run out by now. Probably. Well, that's fascinating. Yeah. See, I'm just. I'm just waiting for the applause. Professor. Don't know about you. There we go. Finally. There we go. Connor is in Walton on terms. Connor, question or answer? Hi there, Jaz. I've got a question. I was in supermarket the other day and I noticed that they were selling multi pack items individually. No. Did you report them? No, I didn't. But it did get me wondering, James, why is that the case? Why cannot multi pack bags of crisps or drinks? Or, for example, why can't it be sold separately? I think it's pretty straightforward, isn't it? It's because if you buy in bulk, it's a little bit cheaper than buying individually. So if you're buying a six pack, the per can price is less than if you're buying six. Individual cans. Distributors or outlets or stuff will always be buying in bulk, whether they're buying. Yeah, you would have thought so. I don't know, protecting anyone. And as such, I just can't really get it with crisps as well. Economical reason. You get it with crisps as well, don't you? Some hula hoops and all sorts of snacks. Biscuits, maybe? Yeah. Why can't you split a multi pack? Is the question. Is it. Is it possible that in a lot of multi packs, you have a slightly different portion size? Not really, is it? No. Particularly not with canned drinks and stuff. What were you buying? What were you after? I wasn't buying it. I just saw a kind of a ripped open multipack of cans of coke, actually. Some retail. Retail renegades, then. I know. It's a shame, isn't it? Brexit Britain, mate. Let's find out for an answer. Why can't you sell individual items from the multipack? 1241 is the time Simon is in Orpington. Simon, question or answer? Answer, James. It was written in Greek. The revelations is in the New Testament. Take that. Sorry, mate. Simon, just talk among yourself for a minute, will you? New Testament revelations. That's. That's Greek. That's the New Testament, not the Old Testament. To take back that round of applause from that fella. Thank you, Simon. Carry on. Question or answer? Right answer, go on. This is another one of my kids holiday ones. Answered a big sheep question on this. I love the big sheep. I know. And then we answered one about sheep shearing, and I heard they had a big sheep for those. For that. Hang on a minute. I just need to tell people who don't know what the hell we're talking about, of whom there are probably quite a lot. There's a rather splendid theme park in. Is it, Devon? Yes, it is, rather. It's called the big sheep, which is exactly what you might expect. It's a sheep based theme park and it's a huge amount of fun. You can do all sorts there. And it educated me about sheep shearing. It does, yes. You can have a go, can't you? You can, yeah. Carry on. Last year, we were going to that neck of the woods and we decided to stop at the cheddar gorge on the way, just to break the journey. Lovely. And I loved this answer when I heard it. And I've remembered ever since the penny dropped, when they first excavated or discovered or were discovering the caverns and caves in the cheddar gorge, they weren't sure which seams would open as they were excavating, so they pushed pennies into the seams in the roof, which are still there to this day as you take the walk through, because the penny was made of metal and the capes were completely silent, apart from, obviously, the guys working, you would hear the penny drop. And I loved it when I heard it, and I still love it now. And it's the first time I've ever had to use it. Oh, that's beautiful. And what. What purpose did it serve? Sorry? What purpose did it serve? Because they would know that the seams were opening and therefore they were kind of excavating too far, so they'd know to stop. So there were rows of pennies? Yes. Beautiful. And as you look up and they point them out to you, because you have to hit the earphones with the recorded message, they says, if you look up at this point and you see. You see pennies poked into the seams that are still there to this day, that is a thing. That is an answer of absolute beauty. I loved it when I heard it. Oh, man. That's something that's almost like the s that you and the fellow with the calculator who typed in the rude word without realizing that those two. Those two points there, that is the essence of mystery. Alright. Isn't it just. Isn't it? A round of applause for Simon. Thank you very much. No, thank you very. In fact, is that a radiant. It's not, is it? Because it just. He was just a tourist. It's not. Not a qualified. What a thing of beauty. Jonathan's in Teignmouth. Jonathan, question or answer? It's an answer. It's to the crosswords question. Oh, splendid. Why are they all symmetrical? Well, they're originally called word crosses and they appeared in. I don't actually know what publication, but it was in New York in the early 19 hundreds and they felt that it was quite elegant to have symmetry to it and basically convention stuck. But they. Personal immigrant from the UK and so in America and in the UK, all crosswords have symmetry. But everywhere else in Europe they don't. Is that right? That's true. Qualifications? Well, I published magazine specializing in puzzles and we published in the US, UK and in Europe. That's a Ray Liotta moment, isn't it? You've got a question about crosswords and you're a crossword publisher. Yep. Go on. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Thanks very much. My pleasure. You also get a round of applause before you go. Absolutely. This is vintage mystery, isn't it? Goodness me, we needed it. Well, Shane, we lost the first five or six minutes because of David Davis's speech. It's quarter to one. Ross Bail is in the LBC travel center. Thank you very much, James. Taking a look first at the M 20. 512. 50 is the time I've got a couple of finalized free for questions. First line is 10:00 this morning. Actually, do you know, I think Brexit has meant that mystery hour no longer necessarily signifies the busiest hour on the switchboard. Other hours are up there now as well. So you will get through. If you've got a question, be quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 still in need of answers to just the multi pack and the jokers. Why do we have jokers in a pack of cards? What are they for? Not what do you use them for? But why would they put there originally? To which I don't think they're a spare in case you lose a card works because you'd be better off having a blank and then you could sort of at least fill it in. And why are you not allowed or not supposed to sell things from a multi pack individually? What's the rationale behind that? Simon is in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Hi, James. Good man. Bring it on. Multipack. Yes. One word. Barcode. The outer packaging has the barcode when you buy it and the individual packs inside do not. Can you say that again? Can you say one word? Barcode. Again? Barcode. Barcode. One word, James. Barcode. Yeah. You're the Clint Eastwood of multi packs. Look in Westwood, maybe. And that's why. So it's not actually a rule or a law, it's just for the. For the purposes of. Yeah. Well, hang on, though. I have seen. Can I just caveat that we have seen in corner shops. Left them. Yeah. You know, multi pack items with. If they then put a sticker with the price on. So they're not doing anything wrong? No, I guess not. I guess not. But there physically is no barcode on the individual packs. So it says not to be sold separately to help the retailers? To help most retailers. And the retailers. Yeah. So the retailers that have chosen not to do it are the ones that still sort of operate without barcode. Qualifications. Qualifications? Bought a multi pack of coke, six pack on Monday, and just drink one of them today and check for a barcode. And there wasn't one. I've already used up my rally. Ota. You're not getting qualifications. I just drank a can of coke. Give them a round of applause. That's got to be 90%, if not 100% of the answer. Thank you, Simon. 1252 is the time. Anthony is in. Elton Anthony, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Unexploded bombs? Yes. When they do work in London, has any of them ever gone off independently, like, without being disturbed? I saw that big glass explosion up in the world blew up and they discovered gas. So has an old bomb ever gone off without warning or discovery? Well, I know they dig them up. They've been there a long while. The fuse didn't go off in the first place. That's why it didn't go off. If it degraded enough, would it suddenly blow up or could it blow up? Yeah. I mean, so when you need one person who's got knowledge of it, don't we? And you've got your answer. Because we can't answer. No, because there's no way. I've never heard. Because you always, you know, it's a big panic, but if they close off the area and, you know, it's a bit of a panic. You wouldn't fancy myself. There's a massive one recently, wasn't there, in East London, I think. And every time I hear one of them, I think, what are the odds? Yeah, I suppose if it survived all that time, the longer it goes. Why am I even talking? I don't know anything about bombs. That's why I'm asking the listeners. We're trying to find you an answer. So an unexploded bomb and it must have gone off within a couple of hours of landing or a couple of days or something like that. Presumably during the second world War. It was a thing. So what sort of timescale are you looking for, Anthony? Oh, has any. Got any gone off? So then, you know, recently or, you know, ten years, 20 years after. Yeah. Significant years upwards. Not, not sort of like days, because that'd be daft. All right, yeah, we'll try. We've got phone lines. Come on. Ring in bombs. 0345-6060 973. Marks in skip, turn. Question or answer mark. It's an answer. Carry on, mate. Okay, so it's the Jokers in the pack. It's not to do with tarot. It's basically something to do with a game that was introduced in the Civil War. I can't remember exactly which game, but basically introduced the Jokers as a trump card. So that was like your winning card. If you had your joker, then you'd win the game as such. But it does kind of have like a comparison to the full card in the tarot. So maybe that's kind of why people think that, but it's purely down to the civil war and it was introduced during the game then. Qualifications? I'm a professional magician, so I'm. I work with playing cards every day. Sir, are you really a professional magician? Yeah, I am, yeah. Cool beans. So that's a pretty good qualification, I suppose. And if only you could remember the name of the flipping game, then we'd be over the. I don't think I play the games. It's kind of a busman's holiday, I suppose, but I. Because I'm dealing with, you know, doing stories about packs of cards all the time. It's one of those things that picks up while ago and he's just kind of stuck. I like it. I think the game might be called Eukre or something like that. I don't know if it goes back to the Civil War. I'm just getting reading my text. I shouldn't. I shouldn't really do that. I'm going to give you a round of applause. It's to do with a game that we don't play anymore, is the short answer. Yeah, yeah. Good man. What's your best trick, Mark? Oh, God. It says, it's one that I do with a borrowed ring and it appears inside a wallet, inside a sealed envelope after appearing various different places. So it's kind of my closing trick, is that for when I. For when I work, I just do close up magic. So. Brilliant. Do you listen to Steve Allen in the mornings? Not in the mornings. I'm not usually up to perfect. You know he's a member of the Magic circle. Yeah, well, so am I. I think I probably. I've probably been at the Magic circle and he's been there at some point, so I know we've got some mutual friends. That's nice, isn't it? Because I know he's a big fan of this hour, even though he calls it the musical hour and pretends I talk about hip hop. A round of applause for Mark. No, thank you. Is that a ray Liotta? He's a magician. It's not quite. No. Okay, fine. Blimey, Gary. Hammersmith, question or answer? It was a question, but, I mean, I phoned up over half an hour ago. Oh, sorry, mate, it's quite busy and they were supposed to call me back, but they didn't call me back. That's not good enough. What do you want me to do? Do you want blood on the carpet? You want p 45s or just a suspension? I'm just gonna leave till next week and I'll ask you. Next week? Are you sure? I mean, I might be able to. I might know the answer myself. No, I don't think so. Really? Yeah. So that's it, is it? Yeah. I'll call back next week. All right, mate? Yeah, all right. Mind how you go, though, eh? Cheers, bye. Cheers, Gary. Paul's in cheff. Your poor question or answer? Oh, James, I feel a little bit sorry for you now. I feel bad. I'm going to carry on now. I'm sorry for keeping you so long, Paula. I don't know how long. Yes, I've been on a minute and 31 seconds. Roll on this one. It's Brexit. Britain all around. Everything's falling apart. Question or answer, James. I'm open as well. Be more forceful. An answer. Yeah, good man. Come on. The majority bombs that were dropped by Luftwaffe from Coventry, Sheffield, London were on a propeller. And as they went through the air, the propeller would spin round and it had put like a little corkscrew effect, completing a circuit. Oh, yeah. When. When they hit the ground, that's when they actually blew up, because they timed them, you know, the altitude. Yeah. But, I mean, they're not the only bombs. There must be some bombs that landed and didn't blow up. Incendiary ones. Yeah, they blew up straight away. Yeah. The mines all lay dormant. Fears, you know, what, being laid in the sea, because they remain. They remain active. You know, when you push the. You know, the spike on the mine. Yeah. That's going to make them go off. But if it's a chemical fuse or a propeller screw, one circuit can't be made. It won't be made. You can. It could hit it with a hammer or two hammers and it just would. Ten hammers or the biggest hammer in history. The hammer of the north. So. So that you. So you. I mean, I go, so you're saying no bomb, no unexploded bomb has ever gone off? No, I'm not saying that because. I can't say that because knowing my. Look, I'll go out into backyard today, give me a round of applause. I love it. Hang on, give me back. Qualifications? Ex electrician. Now a nurse. Oh, wow. That's a nice combination. Do you ever. Do you ever have cause to employ your electrician skills while nursing? Strangely, no. What about on the defibrillator? Oh, yes. Yes. There you go. Oh, thank you for making me laugh, Paul. Seriously, what a lovely answer. And then enjoy your round of applause. That is it. God, I needed that. That is it. We'll be back tomorrow asking what the hell is going on, but mystery. I provide some light relief, which I can see from my inbox that you enjoyed at least as much as I did. That is it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James. Later, from three, the biggest copy and paste job in history is how one wag has described the great Repeal bill published in a white paper in the Commons today. Just how many EU laws are we going to lose at two? We already miss you. An apparently heartbroken Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, said yesterday after Article 50 was triggered. How much do you care about how our continental cousins feel? And straight up after the news, the prime minister warned in her letter to Donald Tusk yesterday that no deal on Brexit would threaten security on the continent because it would weaken cooperation. Critics say she's horse trading over something too important to bargain with. Was she right to do so.