What song does an ice cream van play?- 28 May 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where a weekly adventure is about to unfold. An adventure into the unknown. What sorts of. You know, those newspaper columns where a reader will write in and ask, why do we do this? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? Who invented this? Why, where, when, what, whither, whether, wherefore, whence? Any interrogative pronoun you care to mention will be included in the in the coming minutes. So you ring in with a question that you've got, someone else rings in with the answer. It sounds like the most dry and simple exercise imaginable, but I guarantee not only will you get a belly laugh in the next hour, you'll also learn something new, something that you haven't previously been aware of. Now, what I can't do is promise you that you'll be grateful for the information, knowledge, absolutely no guarantees whatsoever that the knowledge you glean in the course of the next 54 minutes will be of any use to you subsequently whatsoever. But it will be, this is the guaranteed knowledge that you don't currently have the number you need and you'll only hear me say the number. And I have phone lines free of. The problem with mister, if you can describe it as a problem, is its popularity. So it is by far the hardest hour of the week on which to get through. But oddly, the beginning is sometimes a better bet than later on, because Michael and Sandra, who are on the phones today, will be very politely inviting quite a lot of people to hang up because they're ringing in with a question that's either a bit boring, a bit unsuitable, or something that we've actually dealt with relatively recently. So if you dial in now with a question that you know is new, you've probably got your best chance of getting on air. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Who, why, what, where? When? Whither, whence, wherefore, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's going on there? What's the origin of this? Okay, you can only answer on the phone, so repetition and dullness are the only circumstances in which you won't get on the board. And if you hear me say the number, then that means I've got some phone lines free. I think that's about it, really. Judicious use of redial regulars tell me is the best way. Because sometimes you. You moan that you've heard from, I don't know, someone like Wayne embassled and seems to get on every week, although he hasn't got on for weeks. That's because he's got a new bambino at home, actually. The point being, of course, that some people do seem to slip through and some people email me telling me they've been trying to get on for weeks. There's no preferential treatment or anything like that. If you hear me say the number, it means there's a phone line. Three, like now. There's 20. 345-606-0973 is the number to call six minutes after twelve. Should we start in Bournemouth? Shall we see a nice sunny weather? A lot of kids are on half term. Let's get down to Bournemouth. That's where Richard is. Richard, what's your question? Hello, James. Love the show. Right, I've got a question. It's really hard to explain, though. So, basically. Yeah, here we go. So basically, I've bought a vacuum cleaner. I just put it in half to put a new bag in it. Yeah. The bag covers up the end of the nozzle, if that makes sense. You've got end of the nozzle that you pick up the debris with and you've got end of the nozzle that squirts the debris into the vacuum cleaner. The bag goes off there. How does the suction make stuff? If you're covering up that. That end of the vacuum cleaner, how does the suction work? What, so is it. Is it. Is it. What sort of. Is it a Henry? Yes. Is it. Well, it's a Henry shaped hoover. It's a vac king or something. But. And the nozzle. The nozzle attaches to the bag. Yes, but the. But the engine doesn't. No. Well, isn't that the answer? Isn't the engine halfway up the nozzle, so to speak? No, no, no, it is. It's not. It is. It's in the top. Top half of the thing of me that you open when you put our. Mate. This is rubbish. Literally. Yeah, literally. I don't even understand what you're talking about. And it can't be. Can it really be a mystery? It's a mystery to me, yeah. So you've got a. You got a hoover? Yep. You stick one end of the nozzle in the bag and the other end on the carpet and you turn it on and you don't understand how it's. Now, the mystery is how does the suction go through the closed bag and no debris come out of the bag? Well, because air will pass through it, but debris won't. It's not. Has it not got a little hole in the top of the arm? Keep us the show like it means no. All right, sorry. I will. Okay, let's. How long have you had the hoover? Ages. Every time I open it, it hugs me. Okay, that's what we're here for. Let's get Richard an answer. Ideally sooner rather than later. Zero. 345-606-0973 Simon is in Bracknell. Simon, question or answer? Well, I'm very sorry about that, Simon. Really? Well, I never. What? That's the most foul mouthed caller we've ever had in our life. Thank God for that software. Derek's Inhoburn. Derek, what would you like to say? Question or answer? It's a question. Yes, it's been bothering me for years. Oh, God. It's not medical hour. You know that, don't you? No, it's not medical hour. Carry on. Why do women. Why do women squeeze the toothpaste from the middle of the tube? No, see, you put me in a really difficult position now, Derek. Why? Well, I mean that I have a new colleague working today who's never really been on mystery hour before, so I can't. I can't blame them for this. But you've been listening to Mister a. You should know that's far too boring to ever get on this program. I thought it was frivolous. It's really, really boring. And also, there's no real answer to it. You don't know that. And also, it's not true. Oh, well, my household with three daughters. Well, then ask them. And a wife. It's true. Well, they'll ask them. Why are you asking me? They can't answer me. I thought some intelligence, some intelligentsia out there amongst your listeners would have. All right, I'll leave it on the board, Bernie, because it's you, Derek. Thank you very much. Turn off to twelve. Simon is in Bracknell. Simon. Oh, hang on a minute. Is this the bloke who was just swearing at me a minute ago? Simon, what have you got? Question or answer? Hello, James, I've got a question for you. Yes? Is my daughter. My ten year old daughter wanted to ask this question, but she's on a play date for half term, so I'm left with a job. She asked me the other day, what's the difference between ginger beer and ginger ale. Because beer is ale, isn't it? Yes, it is. What makes you think there is any difference at all? Is it not just names? That's the same thing. Well, one's kind of a cloudy, soft drinker. Oh, no, I know what it is. Have you ever made it? Have you ever made it? I. When I was very young, my neighbor used to make it with yeast. With yeast? Yeah. And I put it in the airing cupboard. That's the one, yes. That's fermented. Right. And what's ginger ale, then? Ginger ale is effectively the same as other pops, which will be a carbonated drink. So fizzy water with ginger flavoring in it. In fact, when you taste it, you can tell, because ginger ale doesn't have the depth that ginger beer has. It's just a way of introducing, and very, very rarely do you drink ginger ale on its own. It's a way of introducing a ginger flavor to a spirit or a mixer drink, isn't it? Well, that's where you're wrong, because actually it's ginger ale. She's taken a liking. That doesn't mean I'm wrong. It just means she prefers the less pungent taste. So as a young child, that would make sense. It's less spicy, it's less fiery. Do you think that's definitive, then? I know it's definitive. You ferment beer. You don't ferment ale. Ginger ale? No. Okay, well, I'll accept you. Well, hang on a minute. Sorry, you mean you're sounding a little bit ungrateful and dare I say, unimpressed by the quality of that answer. It was pretty much what I thought that, you know. Okay. Oh, okay. Yeah, right. Fine. But I didn't feel certain about it, that's all. It's all about fermentation. Okay. Granted my qualifications, I've made ginger beer and I've made ginger ale in the sodastream. I mean, it is that simple. You can buy a ginger ale flavor for your sodastream. It does. That's what ginger ale is. It's a carbonated water with a flavoring added to it. All right. Okay. Thank you, James. I don't know why I bother. I honestly don't give you the tools with which to sustain the illusion in your little girl's mind that you know everything, that you're an omniscient father. You ferment ginger beer. You don't ferment ginger. I don't. George is in Brentwood. George, question or answer? Question. Yes. Is the big bang. Was it a big bang big. Or was it just called big because it's a big event, as in. I mean. Yeah, I think the latter. It's called big because it's quite an epic event. I don't know that there's any evidence at all there was any noise involved. Yeah. I mean, was the explosion big or was it small? How big was the actual explosion? Or was it just called big because it was a big event in history? Yeah, the second bit. Okay. That means not the big bang as in the big event. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Did I get a round of applause for the last one? For the ginger beer question? Yeah, I did. I'm going to get another one now. Honor. No. Was it. Well, yeah, I'll leave it on the board. Was the big bang it called the big bang because of the size of the bang or the size of the event? Thank you, James. Thank you, George. Andrew's in Tottenham. Andrew. Question or answer? Answer, James. To which one? Not the toothpaste one. No, no, the vacuum cleaner. Go. Carry on. Right. The chamber in which he puts the bag that you suck. That sucks the rubbish into the bag. Yeah, yeah. I'm hanging on your every word. Don't expect much interaction. The motor. The motor creates the pull in that area and then hence pull the rubbish down the tube into the bag. The bag is a filter. Certain amount of dust will pass through the bag, but most of what is collected in the bag remains in the bag. But when you turn the vacuum cleaner on, you will sometimes smell that after dust coming out of it. Yeah, but how does the sucky action pass through the paper? The bag. How does it. How does the suction work? If the bag is over the nozzle? The bag is over the nozzle and it's sucking the air through the bag and from the area, the vacuum pieces. Because it's just a porous membrane, it's just paper. If it was made out of plastic, it wouldn't work. That's why they're made out of paper, not plastic. Yes. Qualifications? I'm an engineer, electrical engineer. But I know how it works. What do you mean, but you know how it works? If you said I'm a milkman but I know how hoovers work, then that would make sense. But you say I'm an electrical engineer but I know how hoovers work, that doesn't make sense at all. I'd be worried if you didn't. I don't repair hoovers, but I do know the mechanics of it. All right. I think it's under your round of applause. Thank you very much. We can cross that one off the vaccine. What have we got left? Big bangs toothpaste. What else was the first one? Is that all we've got left? Big bangs and toothpastes. Oh, and ginger beer. I did ginger beer. Perfect. Perfect answer. No. No chance of a steward's inquiry there. The only thing I'd say, if you're listening and hanging on my every word, is, if you are going to make your own ginger beer, try and get hold of some brewers yeast rather than Baker's yeast, because baker's yeast can make your ginger beer smell a little bit flatulent, whereas brewers yeast delivers an altogether more floral bouquet. It's 1216. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. More of this after this mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 20 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to mystery Hour on LBC. The questions that remain include, why is the big bang called the Big Bang? Is it because of the scale. Scale of the event or the sound of the explosion? And Derek's question, which is causing quite a lot of controversy in the studio, I have to tell you. Let me read what Kay said. The toothpaste question is not only boring but not true either. None of the girls or women in our family do that. How about taking it off the board? We've never done that before. In all the years that we've been doing mystery out together, we've never actually removed. We've never removed a question from the board as a result of democratic inquiry. Derek's question was, why do women squeeze toothpaste tubes in the middle and men squeeze it from the end? To which most people have replied by saying, well, that's not true. Jones the engineer recognizes it, though this is apparently what goes on in his household. Yeah, I know he has girlfriend, but whether or not it holds true across a wider spectrum, I do not know. Zero. 345-606-0973 we don't normally take texts and emails, but if you think like Kay, that this actually is such a bad question that we'll remove it from the board for the first time in mystery hour history. Let me know via electronics. Electronic communication. Meanwhile, let's head to Brighton. We've already been to Bournemouth. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and therefore I deduce we'll be here to talk about the big Bang rather than toothpaste tubes. Never mind the toothpaste, let's get on to the big bang. Get it, bring it this has come up a couple of times before in a slightly different form. The big Bang was coined by Fred Hoyle, and Fred Hoyle wrote the seminal paper which explained all the elements and how they came to be, and he coined it. He didn't believe in the Big Bang. He said, we have a steady state universe. And he was using it sort of slightly ironically, but the name stuck. And it happened 14 billion years ago. It was all the matter in the universe was in a point mass. Ten to the power of 78 particles. That's one with 78 zeros after it. And something caused it to inflate. And all the matter and all the antimatter reacted and annihilated. And the reason we're still around is for every billion particles of antimatter, there was a billion and one particles of matter. So those particles stayed. And, you know, amimata and antimatter, you know, Star Trek, dilithium crystals and stuff. Yeah. Matter annihilates antimatter. And one of the things I said to Michael is that he's a star, because all the elements in your body were made in a star. Literally, we are all stardust. And any element that's bigger than iron in your body, for example, iodine. You didn't really tell him he's a star, did you? I did. Don't tell O'Brien that. What you've done. Have you any idea what I have to deal with already without you biggin him up and thinking that he's interstellar or something like that? No. And it's just like, I give this lecture to my students and they love it. We are all made in stars. We are stardust. Even you. Romantic. What do you mean, even me? Especially me. Didn't you. Yes, sorry. Especially me. It's easier to believe in my case than it is in anybody else's. Why then, is it called. So, hang on, just in answer to the original question, I mean, there isn't an answer to why is it called the answer? It's called the Big Bang because Fred Hoyle decided to call it the Big Bang. Yes. And that was in recognition of the size of the event, not in. He was being sarcastic because he didn't believe in it. He said, we have a steady state universe, always has been and always will be. Whereas we now worked out that the universe is expanding and at some point we'll reach the end of its cosmic piece of elastic and it will start to unexpand or whatever the opposite of that is. And we'll have the big contract. Yes, contract. Get in that doesn't happen very often. But words, I guess, is my field more than yours. Yes. So it went from the micro, the very small, because it was a point mass, to the very large because the universities, as you know, still expanding. Yeah. Mind blowing. It is mind. I mean, well, not literally, obviously, but as close as making the metaphor true can be. I'm going to give you a round of applause, obviously, but I don't know if the fellow who asked the question would be satisfied with that answer. The answer was, it went from the micro, the very small to the absolutely enormous. So I did answer the question. He said, how big was it? And it was enormous. It created everything there is. So it's big rather than bang. Before the big bang, there was no space and there was no time, there wasn't emptiness, there was nothingness. So was there any noise? No, that's the whole point. Yeah, and that's what I'm trying to say. All right. You always make me feel so stupid. No, I didn't mean to do that. I know you don't mean to. That's what makes it worse. No, no, I want to answer the question. There was no noise. You have to have a medium for sound to travel. That's what I thought. An atmosphere. Yes. I love a party with a happy atmosphere. Well, you can hear on the long rail tracks, can't you? Anything, any medium. Yes. Sound of not traveling. A vacuum, resonation. It needs to resonate on something. Yes. It's like Newton's cradle. Something just like Newton's cradle. He needs to bump into another. So it's. Yeah. So the bang is the misnomer. The biggest is whatever Fred Hoyle intended. The big was bang on the money. Yes, bang back, bang on them. What caused it? Nobody seems to know what caused it. Come on. Come on. Big professor man. Oh, I'm not that big. A few pounds. But that's one of the mysteries is not the divine creator. That's when people start saying, okay, there has to be the invisible hand of what came before it all began. And nobody knows. If anyone rings in with that question, they'll be banned from mystery hour forever. Professor, there was no space or time. That's the whole point. There was nothing. I know, I know. Guess what? This is your ten to the power of 12th round of APplauSE on mystery air. Thank you. You're welcome. One phone line free. As I bid farewell to Professor Hal. You could wade in and grab it for yourself. 034-56-0609 is the number you need. So we need some more questions. Now. I've only got one more. Well, actually, we still haven't taken a decision on whether or not to excise the toothpaste question from proceedings entirely. Let's see what Rosemary and Peckham Rye thinks. Rosemary, what would you like to say? Hi. First of all, I'd just like to say that it's the engineer Brian Jones fault for posing the question. But secondly, yeah, I think it's because. What are we talking about, Rosemary? Oh, sorry, we're talking about toothpaste. Oh, hang on. I haven't decided if we're letting that question stay on the board yet. Oh, okay. But I do have an answer. Well, let's answer this question first. Isn't it a rubbish question? It is a very rubbish question, but I do have an equally rubbish answer. Yeah. It turns out I was wrongly blaming my new colleague for this question getting on the board. It was my oldest colleague of all, Jones, the engineer, who greenlighted the toothpaste tube question, frankly. Well, go and have a crack at answering it. Okay, so basically, I think the reason why being the person that actually posed the question having, is it for women in the house? Yeah, maybe it's because they are probably just as annoyed as men leaving toilet seats. Oh, that's. I knew this was going to happen, no offense, and I'm grateful for the call, but it's now lurched from really poor to shocking. That's it, I'm getting rid of the toothpaste question. Derek, mate, sorry, that's that. See what happens. Soon as you allow that, soon as you open the door, just a little crack to that kind of nonsense, they take over. Justin's in the Netherlands. Justin, question or answer? It's a question, please. Whereabouts in Holland are you? I'm in the Hague, actually. You sounded confused for a moment. No, I am a bit confused, because the other week I was coming back from the UK and I was getting the ferry from. I was getting the ferry from Dover to Calais. Yeah. And as we were leaving Dover, the ferry was being. And I'm sorry, it's another seagull question. That's right. And I was wondering, we were right across the channel and that's like 30 odd miles, isn't it? And the ferries were still flying next to us and I wasn't worried that they were going to fall into the sea and drown, because I knew that they could rest on the ferry. But then I was thinking, I had all these questions about seagulls. Do you know what? If you hadn't told me you were in Holland, if you hadn't told me you were in Holland, I might have been able to work it out for myself, Justin. But my main question is, where do all the seagulls come from, man? French. What? They're coming from Dover and they're going to Calais, or they're going. So you're doing a cross channel. You're doing a cross channel journey and you want to know where the seagulls live. Yeah. So if you see a seagull halfway midpoint french seagulls or english seagulls. Exactly. Are they non dolls? Non dom seagulls, you know, I mean, and when they get. If a seagull follows a ferry and it's quite late at night and it ends up in Calais, does he wait the next day? If he's, like, nesting in the UK, you can only have one question. So could they have two homes? Could they have two. Two homes? I don't know how far. So really, the question is, how far from home can a seagull roam? That will provide you with. That will provide you with the answer that you need. I really want to know, do they live in two places or do they live in one place? I think that's the question. Okay. No, fine. I presume it's one. But we'll get you a definitive answer if it kills us. Zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer Justin's question, and if you have one of your own. Zero 345-606-0973 hit the numbers now. You will get through three phone lines for you at the moment, so don't hang around. It's. Yeah, I don't know, really is my answer to that last one. I do know, however, that it's now 12:30. Six minutes to one is the time. How many homes do seagulls have? I actually really like that question. I was going to get a bit previous about it, but when you think about it, in fact, as someone's just pointed out in an email, which I'll dig out for you in a moment, he's up at six foot, up a ladder at the moment, doing some guttering, and there's a house, Martin's nest. Now, those house Martins would have also had a nest in Africa quite recently, before migrating, so the notion of birds having more than one home is not actually silly. How many homes do seagulls have, particularly if you're on a cross channel ferry? Is there a chance that a seagull has a place in Normandy and a place in Kent? 0345. And do they expend equal amounts of time in each nest, or do they, like, have a main nest and a holiday nest? Zero. 345-606-0973 we've got toothpaste questions getting all sorts of abuse now. I should never have let this happen. Judy says, what's a silly question about the toothpaste? Please delete it immediately. I have. I've deleted it immediately. It was a silly question. I'm sorry it happened. But it does leave us with a bit of a gap on the board. We've only got the seagull question left now. So if you've got a question, and now if you're new and you've heard the last half an hour, you get an idea. Ignore the toothpaste question. But the other ones are sort of mixture of science and trivia, silliness and seriousness. If you want to get involved, get involved now. 034-56-0609 is the number that you need. We're struggling a bit this week with people ringing in and it's great that you knew and you want to get involved, but if you're ringing in loads and loads and loads of questions that we've already done, it kind of sticks a bit of a stick in the spokes for the rest of us. So that's a sort of polite invitation, if you will. Natasha is in healing. Natasha, question or answer? Hello, James. I have a question. Hello, Natasha. What is it? Why do cartoons only have three fingers and a thumb? Well, why do cartoon characters only have three fingers and a thumb? Who's your favorite cartoon character at the moment? Um. Um. Charlie and Lola. I love Charlie and Lola. Do they have three fingers in a thumb? I can't remember. I've got stickers on my wall at home. I think they do. I think they do as well. Now, I know the answer to this, Natasha, but if I tell you, do you think that I will sound like a know it all or do you think we should wait for someone else to ring in with the answer? I think we should wait for something for the app. So. So I would sound like a know it all if I told you then, yes. What? How old are you, Natasha? What was that? How old are you? Seven. From the males of babes. I will get you an answer to this question and when I do, we'll all applaud. Okay? Take care, Natasha. Thank you for calling. God bless my dad. 1237. Tell me when it's going to be a child so that I can sort of put on my game face. You know, I'd had no idea that was going to be a child. I was getting ready to mock the question. Valerie's in Sidcup. Hello, Valerie. How old are you? How old are you, Valerie? Quite old. Oh, sorry. Just. Just checking. Just making sure I wasn't doing it. Well, put a few. Well, put about 70 decades on that. Question or answer, Valerie? It's the question. Carry on. I did actually phone in with it about 18 months ago, but never got an answer and it's been seething ever since. Oh, I'm sorry. Why is the periodic table so called? What's periodic about it? Are you sure you've had that before? It doesn't ring any bells with me. It is a long time ago. It could be more than 18 months. Sure, sure. I don't remember that at all. Why is it called the periodic table? That'll be why. So we've set ourselves. We've given ourselves a few. A bit more time here. I love that question. But the periodic table, why is it called periodic? Not elemental or something like the table of elements? Doesn't make much sense. I know what Professor Howell will be doing down in Brighton in the department of the public. No, he'll be kicking himself that. He's already shot his shot. He's had his shot at the big bang question. Oh, he's not allowed to. Not allow to, no, not in this game. You've got another tame professor, though. I'm a tame professor. I quite like that phrase. I have. I'm hoping for a hat trick, but the phones have gone a bit bonkers, so we'll have to wait and see whether Professor Martin at the University of Middlesex can get through. Valerie, that's a lovely question. Why is the periodic table. What's periodic about it? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. And how many homes do seagulls have? Where do they. Can they live on two sides of water? Daniel's in Beckenham. Daniel, question or answer is a question, please, James. Carry on. Daniel, what is the music? An ice cream van place. Well, it's all different. Not. We got two ice cream van that comes around our area and they play the same tune growing up. It's normally the same sort of tuning. How does it go? How does it go, Daniel? I can't give you that one. I can't. I'm not a good singer. All right, so your question is, what's this tune that I can't play you? Well, there is. There is a. There is, um. There is a tune of. It sort of plays. Is it that one? Yeah, that's the one. Green sleeve. It must have been chose as an ice cream van theme tune. And I'm just wondering, what is that piece of music? Green sleeves, written by Sir Thomas More as a tribute to Henry VIII. It's about Anne Boleyn. Or it might have been Henry VIII who pretended to write it and it was about Anne Boleyn anyway. Right, so they wrote green sleeves to be the theme tune of a ice cream band. No, he wrote it as a love song for Anne Boleyn, because during tudor times, ice cream vans were fairly thin on the ground and hadn't yet developed loudspeakers. Right, okay. What do you want on the board? Well, I've given you the. You said, what's that music on the ice cream van? And I've told you, it's green sleeves. I've answered it. No, I don't think that's the. I'm sure someone will ring in with a proper answer. Well, so you said, what's this tune that I can't play? You. I gave you a tune. You said, yes, that one. I told you what it was called. But you. The one that I get, the one they played, would come around. My house is not green. Please. Well, how does it go, then? Oh, God, James, you put me on a spot already. What do you mean? I'm putting you on the spot? You've rung a radio show to say, what's this tune? And the presenter has said, what tune? And you've gone, oh, you put me on the spot, mate. So then I gave you this one. Yeah, it's that tune, sleep. But that was greensleeves. What I just did. Some of them do play nursery vines, but there is a. There is one thing tune that they always play, and I just can't put me. It's greensleeves. No, no. Okay. No, it's all right now. I forget it. I put it on the board. I thought the toothpick. It's greensleeves. Right, but how am I even going to know? So someone else will come on and say, is it this? And you won't be here anymore. I just want you to put it on the board. So sorry, I can't put it on the board if I don't know what the tune is. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I can't really sing it to you, James. You don't need to sing it, just hum it. But then I don't understand what you think will happen next, Daniel. I don't know. I'm hoping someone will ring in and sing it for me. But how will I know that that's the right one? Because you won't be here anymore. We haven't thought. We didn't think this through, did we, mate? No, not really. Wait there. Stay there, stay there. Don't go away. Stay there. Daniel, Sam's in Liverpool. Sam, what have you got? James, the song that you just did was green sleeves. Yeah, but I've heard on my ice cream trucks as well. It's definitely green sleeves. Daniel, does that help? Daniel? Daniel. Yeah. Can I just say, some of the questions today have been rubbish. I know, mate. There's going to be. There's going to be fireworks. I tell you, it's going to be trouble. Daniel. Actually quite good this summer. It's summery. You know, everyone. He didn't mean you necessarily. Don't be so defensive. He might have meant the toothpaste fella. The toothpaste one. Yeah, because I knew that would happen. Someone sets the bar that low, everyone fills their boots. So are you accepting green sleeves is the answer or not, Daniel? No. No, I honestly don't. Sam, mate, you're wasting your breath. I guess so. He's got his mind made up and so someone else will ring in and say, oh, it's. I don't know, Yankee doodle dandy? And I'll say, is it Yankee doodle dandy? And Daniel won't be here anymore. So with that, that is just like a vortex of ignorance, that question. Sandy's in Camberley. Sandy, what would you like to say? You're nervous. My question is. Yes. Are we the only country in the western world who sings about one person for their national anthem? As in the monarch? Yes. Deutschland, Deutschland. Spain's got a king but oh, Canada. Oh, Canada. I reckon we probably are. But we. I mean, how are we going to go definitive? Who knows all the national. The only way we go definitive if we're not true, because someone will go, no. I am from Monaco and our national anthem is all about Prince Albert. Could be painful, but do we know? I do not know. I shall find out. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. 1244 is the time. National anthems. Is there any other national anthem in the western world? I don't know why she specified that. That focuses on an individual, one person, a monarch or otherwise. What's the tune that Daniel didn't tell us that he's heard on an ice cream? Vanish. And how many houses do seagulls have? It's job 44. I got one more. Karen's in here. The green. Karen, question or answer? A sort of an answer, James. I cruise a lot to various caribbean islands and also the transatlantic cruisers. There always seems to be a seagull very, you know, very close to the ship when we're days out of land. So I think they either live on the top of the cruise ship or they're multi, they're multinational and they live in all the different caribbean islands I go to. Yes, they. So they almost certainly must have more than one home. Oh, they must have loads. I think they're, like, living at the top of the ship and when we get to land, they take off. I like your answer, but is it. Is it definitive? I think so. I think it is. But you're not an ornithologist. You can't say, I know for a fact that black headed gulls have several nests. No, I can't say that, but I just know from them, the ones I've seen on all the cruise ships that go on, so they must. They can't just. I'm going to give you half. I'm going to give you half a round of applause, if that's all right. Thank you very much, James. And it was. It's lovely to talk to you and it's my first time, although I listen intently every day. Oh, that's lovely. Thank you, Karen. You're very welcome. Oh, no, I feel bad. No, no, give her a bit more than that. She just gave me all those compliments. Jones. Yeah, all right, that's enough. Carry on. Thank you, Karen. Right, okay. Beverly Knight's been in touch. Soul singer, star of Memphis, currently in the West End, musical guru. And she says, daniel asking about ice cream truck theme tunes is hilarious. Mystery out, Daniel. It is greensleeves. So for pop star, it's 1246. It's ten minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I don't know about you, but this week I glanced at the clock. I can't believe the show's nearly over. It's ten to one already. I don't know if they put. Have you put something in my tea this week? If you. Have you been putting one of your special gym supplements in my tea? That makes. That makes time speed up. It's very, very strange. Robert is on the line. I don't know where you are, Robert, because they haven't told me. I'm just off the M 25. I've pulled over to. Thank you. I don't ask for much, just the name and location of a caller, that's all I ask for. But anyway, you know. I know, I'm teasing. Robert's just. Whereabouts on the end? Where about. Where are you near? Uh, I'm just at the Rickmanshaw junction, I believe. Rickmansworth. Rickmansworth, yeah. You're getting Rick Shaw mixed up with Rickmansworth? Yeah. Rickmansworth. You're right. Lovely part. What's your nearest services there? I just asked Jones. Jones, what's the nearest services then to Rickmansworth? Be the. What for? Gap, wouldn't it? Yeah, I'm not on the services. I've come off at the roundabout. I just indulge in my inner partridge. I'll crack on with the show proper in a minute. Robert, question or answer, mate? It's an answer to the cartoon character. Oh. The answer that Natasha wouldn't let me give because she thought it would make me sound like a know it all. It's obviously quite simple. It's basically. It looks better visually in the cartoons or whether it's stop frame animation. It's just a visual. It looks better visually. What are your qualifications? I'm currently creating a new children's tv show and app at the moment, so we're building it all in CGI, etcetera and. Well, actually, because I think there's two answers to this, two sides of the same coin. Isn't it also a lot easier to draw? Well, it wouldn't affect. It wouldn't affect the drawing, obviously not with CGI it wouldn't. But back in the day when it began, it would be a lot easier to part of it in stock frame. And it's just. It looks. Visually. It looks. It doesn't look correct having four fingers. It's all scary for young children. There's the scale as well, because, well, I'm going to add, Michael, my answer to yours as well, because I've got. Because I just think with. Someone's told me before, so cartoonists have told me before that they're easier to draw that way. And it might even be part of Disney folklore. Yeah, I mean, it's probably easier to draw than the. You know, you don't need to wrap four fingers around the cup or anything. They grip. It just looks more natural. Are you looking for any top voice talent to be in your new cartoon? Yeah, we could. We could put you in. No, no, not me. Not. Not me. Steve Allen. I thought Steve Allen would be great. I could just see him playing a sort of. I don't know, a sort of slightly camp crocodile. The trucks at the airport. Yeah, that's fine. We could put him in. I get you his numbers. Snappy. Have you not got any animals in it? Snappy the crocodile played by Steve Allen. That'd be lovely. It's all based around the airport, so it's all vehicles. Yeah. What would he be? Spitfire. Yeah. Steve the Spitfire. Spitfire Steve. Spitting fire at everyone. It's the greatest. The ground based vehicle. I can tell you what it's called if you want to look at it. Yeah, go on. It's called air side Andy. I love the sound of that. Yeah. Airsideandy.com is the website and there's an app coming out in August. Give us another buzz when it's out, we'll give you another plug. I'd better check it's suitable first. But if you can find some work for two to seven year old sort of age, try out maestrosa. If you can find some. If you can find a role in there for Spitfire Steve, I'd be ever so grateful to you. Or Ethel B DeMille, as we sometimes call him. Gary's in, Rob for Gary. Question or answer? Oh, no, you're right. Round of applause. Gary, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. The periodic table question. Yes, it's called a periodic table because all the elements are organized by their atomic number and they're split into groups of the vertical lines and the periods are the horizontal ones. And these give you the sort of recurring trends and characteristics of the different elements. But surely that's after the event. Surely once they've been put into the table, you can break them down into what you describe as periods. It's not why it's called the periodic table. Yeah, it's because when you're so. Otherwise, how would you know when to just stop each line and start the next one? It's sort of a way of. So what are the criteria that determine which period you go into, then? No, they're all in all. They're all in order of their atomic number. So they go. They go across in one, two and three. But if you look at a periodic table, there are gaps in between. So it's just a way of sort of making sure they go with their, like ones, the similar ones. Yeah, I think that's good enough, don't you? Yeah. I wasn't asking you, Gary. Obviously you do, otherwise you wouldn't have rung in with it, would you? That's silly. If Professor Hale hadn't gone in early, I probably wouldn't have phoned up and left it for him. No, fair enough. I'm glad you didn't. Well, hang on, you're second guessing my next question, what your qualifications are. What again, Gary? Just purely GCSE chemistry. And I asked this question to my chemistry teacher. Yeah, ok, Gary Lindsey's in Weybridge. Question or answer mate? That's a question, James. Okay, I'm just wondering, right, yesterday, they've never done the lottery before, someone told me it was 30 million quid, so I went and bought the ticket. Yeah. And I'm thinking what actually happens if, like, you're not rich? So you've already got that in place, but like, you know, on the Wednesday you work in a screw fix. Morning. You've just won 30 million quid. Yeah. I mean you can't just rock up at Netwest and pay a check into your current account for 30 million quid, can you? What? You know, what actually happens after that? Where, where does the money sort of physically, it's quite weird. It's. It's quite weird this. I actually know the answer to this question. When's the draw anyway? On the, on the next one? Well, it was last night, I bought a ticket, but I'm such a div, I can't work out. Work out, you know. Well, if you do, if you do win 30 million pounds, there are, there's what's called lottery stewards right, around the country and they often present radio phone in shows because they're really easy to find. Okay? And if. So, if you win 30 million quid, you need to find a lottery steward on this station, for example, it's me and you send the money to them and then they make sure everything's fine after that. Right? Oh, God. Well, there you go then. Round of applause for you. It was 13 million last night, wasn't it? No, it was 30, I think. No, it was only 13, mate. You were. Why'd you buy a ticket for a mere, for a piddling 13 million? The other thing was I went in there with a tenor and I said, oh, can I obtain lottery tickets? He said, yeah, that'd be 20 quid. It's two quid. I didn't even realize it was two quid now, what have you been for? The lot you haven't been in, haven't been serving. I don't want to ask a question. I don't is because I'm such a dave, I can't actually work out how to figure out what, you know, just take it in the shop, take it back to the shop. They can do a thing of me on the thing of me and they'll tell you. If I take back to the shop and he puts it in his tail, when it comes up, I want 30 million quid. He's gonna go, oh, no, you've won nothing, mate. Right, listen, it's 1313. Whatever. Yeah. And there was a story last year about a bloke in a shop who did that and try and they don't get away with it. I can't remember why. I don't want to know that. I want to know is what happens to the bloke who's. Well, you can stick it in your normal bank account. Of course you can. You can pay 30 minutes, 13 million quid. You can pay all the millions you want into your local bank account. And then Camelot actually have people. You can either find your own, but Camelot have financial advisors and people will help you with the money. And have you checked your numbers yet? I don't know how to. That's what I'm saying. How stupid. Have you got your ticket with you now? Yeah, he's got five. How many did you buy in the end? Ten or 20 or five. Well, I bought ten is worth, so I've got five tonight. Five. I don't know what this shows turned into today. Well, gone. What are the numbers? No, I can't. We're late for Sheila Fogarty. We'll have to get back to you next week, Lindsay. It's all right, mate. We all have bad days. That's it for me. For another, we'll be doing it again tomorrow from turn. I am James O'Brien. This is LBC. Here is Sheila Fogarty.