Why does my milk get a skin on it? - 21 May 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's three minutes after twelve and you are listening to LBC, where a pristine, like freshly fallen snow. I have a pristine switchboard in front of me that you are now invited to bombard with your questions and queries, your mysteries and your conundrums. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you are familiar with how this feature works, then fill your boots. Now, if you're not, allow me a moment to explain. It's the radio equivalent of those newspaper columns where, and actually the tv shows as well now, where they look at mysteries problems. You write in and say, why do we do this? Where does that come from? And hopefully a few weeks later, someone else writes in. I'd like to dedicate this to the charming fellow who accosted me on old Compton street in Soho a couple of days ago, shouted at me from from the window of his van, gave me a slight shock, and then said, why don't you do more mystery hours? I stopped for a chat with him and he pointed out that yet another well known radio presenter has launched a sort of rip off version of this feature. I think it's going to be easier to count the ones that haven't. But imitation is sincerest, the sincerest form of flattery. That's what we will continue to tell ourselves. The way this works is simple. You ring me now with a question. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? Whither, when, what, wherefore? Any question you like, someone else will hear the question being asked and they will respond with an answer. So if you hear someone ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. Zero 345-606-0973 or if you've got a question you would like to ask, zero 345-606-0973 I will henceforth only say the number out loud when I have a phone line free. Okay? And that's pretty much it. There is no email or text during this hour, but I will do my best to include a question from Twitter if it has been submitted under the hashtag hash Twittermysteryhour. Because an awful lot of people, in fact, I get quite annoyed with the number of people that listen to the podcast because you couldn't really make it clear that you're not necessarily listening to the rest of the show on a daily or a weekly basis. But if you're listening on the podcast, obviously I want you to feel involved. So hash Twittermistry at any point in the week, we'll see you in with a chance of getting it included. I know I got some this week. I'm just struggling to find them, so leave that with me. Anything else? I think that's pretty much it. Dullness and repetition. Yeah, you can't. You won't get on board if you are boring. Sorry about that. And the management's decision is actually final. As a general rule of thumb, if it's a motoring related question, or it's a question in which only really you will be interested in the answer, you'll be politely invited to move along the rank, and similarly with repetition. If we can remember having dealt with your question in relatively recent times, we would probably not. We'd rather not deal with it again. But, you know, we're only human. Sometimes I forget we did it last week, last month, last year. Don't think we've ever taken the same question twice in the same show. But there's a first time for everything. Six minutes after twelve, we're underway. That's it. Judicious use of redial if you struggle to get through. And I will say the number out loud when I have a phone line free. For example. Now line 50340. It's gone. Victoria's in reading. Victoria, what is your question? My question is from my five year old son. Why is a spider web also known as a cobweb? What does the cob part mean? Where does it come from? Must just be a name for a spider, mustn't it? Is. It must be. I don't know. I've asked so many people, James. And no one knew. No. So you've turned, as a final resort, to mystery hour. You've also reminded me of the other rules. People new to this. You're not allowed to look stuff up. Obviously. People like Victoria and I, we are celebrating human knowledge, exploring the absence of it in this case. But of course, you can google stuff sometimes. But why would you want to? When you can have a human interaction, you can have an enlightening and an educational experience. A celebration of learning. Shall I shut up now, Victoria? Yes, please. Okay. Why is a cobweb called a cobweb? It's been bugging us since Halloween. How old's the lad? Five. That moment when your child asks you a question and you're supposed to know everything because you're their mum. That's why we invented mischievous. I can't believe you just said that out loud. That is why we invented it before your boy was born. That's why we invented it, so that you could. How did we used to describe it, Jones? So you could sustain the illusion of omniscience for just a few weeks longer. Well, let's hope by 01:00 I know the answer. Let's hope indeed. Well, let's hope you do. By 12:15 stranger things have happened. Victoria. Thank you. I got a mystery. Why am I getting so many calls from reading at the moment? No, Penny's in Surbiton. Penny, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Yeah, I don't want to talk too much because I'll frustrate your listeners with my throat this morning, so I just want to ask a quick question and then you can talk. Okay, thanks. It's about sneezing and laughing. Oh, yes. And do people sneeze and laugh in a different language according to where they live in the world? And the same with animals? Pardon? Would it be the same with birds? Do they tweet in a different language? We can't do that one again. We've done that before. Oh, have you? Yeah. In fact, we should dig it out, really. It was one of the finest moments ever on this entire program when the bloke did impressions of Geordie pigeons or something, didn't he? I don't remember. Polish pigeons. Was it polish pigeons? I can't remember. We'll try and find it. But just to clarify, what do you mean, can you sneeze in a foreign language? I mean, when we sneeze, maybe it's learned behavior. It doesn't come naturally. So is this a bit like when I was at school and we did French and the cockerels in french books go cockarico instead of cock a doodle do. That's our interpretation, yes. So the sneeze. So we at you, would we all agree on that? The british way to sneeze is an achoo. Yes. And some people do silent sneezes, which is very frustrating. I prefer to hear someone sneeze. Well, you wouldn't like me to sneeze. I sneeze so loudly, everyone thinks I'm doing attention seeking on purpose, but I'm not. It's just a sort of rush of air from. So if we were reading a phonetically. Well, I don't. I'm just trying to clarify the question. Forgive me. Is it a phonetically reproduced sneeze in a written foreign language? Or are you asking whether people brought up in different countries actually make different noises when they sneeze? Yes, that's what I'm asking. Well, of course they don't. Well, I don't know. If you went to China, you might find someone sneezing in a very short way, you know. Really? What? I don't know. I'll leave you to think about it. Well, thank you, Penny and I go, okay. So can you. What? Ten after twelve. Janet's in. Thorough. Janet, question or answer? I've been to question. I've been dying to talk to you for ages. Here I am. I love you. Thank you. I love you, too. I get so frustrated in the morning when I'm boiling my milk and I get out the microwave. It's got a flaming skin on it. Why does it have a skin on it? Why is there a skin on your milk? When you. When I bowled it out, the milk I put on my cereals, I've always got to put the pork across it to get the skin off. Why does it do that? And is there anything you can do to stop it? Yes. I'm surprised you got through, actually. I mean, I quite like the question, but is it really. Is it a mystery, really? Why does milk have skin on top? Every morning I'd do it and I thought, I'm going to find James. Because it cooks, doesn't it? It's the top cooks, it gets Morgan. No, actually, no, it's a great question, this. Why do you have hot milk on your cereal? Is it porridge normally ready? Brick or weetabix? Yes, hot milk on weetabix. That's quite bold. No, controversial, I know, but I love it. All right, Janet, I will get you an answer if it kills me. Why does Janet's milk have a. Have a skin on top? Zero. 345-606-0973 remember, I've spoken to three people now, so that's why I just said the phone number. A couple of lines freed up. Mohammed is in Skipton. Mohammed. Hello? Hello? Hello, James. You never got an answer to your last question about hangovers, did you? I never, never did, mate. Never did traumatize. I'll ask again. Hang on, I've just remembered something. It was a pub quiz last night and I must have had a dirty glass. I guess it reminded me of your hangover question this morning. There was a thing on the pub quiz last night, Mohammed. Can I run it by you? Go for it. Have you got a pen and paper? Oh, no. All right, well, don't worry, I'll do it later. I want everyone to get a pen and paper if they can, because the thing that popped up in the pub quiz last night is pure mystery hour and I completely forgot about it and I want to share it with you. Have you got a question or an answer for me, Mohammed? I have another question. Come on, then. And this one's as fresh as it gets. 20 minutes ago at work, we were talking through Prince Philip sold gaffes. Yes. And what's your favorite? What's my favorite? It's gotta be. Don't worry, it's all right for radio. No, go on, then. The one where he goes to the driving instructor in Scotland. How do you keep the locals off the booze long enough? It's quite good. My favorite was when Australia was going through quite a republican period. And so a sort of bolshy customs officer asked to see his passport, or asked he had to fill in some paperwork at customs. And normally they just walked straight through and the customs officer said, have you got a criminal record? And Prince Philip replied, I had no idea it was still necessary. So, cracker. Anyway, what's your question about Prince Philip? Question? Right. Well, what's the difference between a duke and a prince? So you have the Prince of Wales, Sir Charles, but then Prince Philip is the Duke of Edinburgh. And then still, even if you bloodline like Prince William, he's the Duke of Cambridge. Yeah, but that's in the gift of the queen. So dukedoms are gifts of the queen. Princeship is a result of being related to the monarch. Ah, right. Got you. So you don't necessarily have to be related to them to be a duke. No, you don't. Duke of Wellington, Prince of Wales, is the Duke of Cornwall as well. But these are. These are in the gift. The Duchy of Cornwall is in the gift of the queen. So some dukedoms are hereditary. Duke of Cambridge, isn't. It? Was a duke of Cambridge a couple hundred years ago. One of Queen Victoria's lesser known sons. There's all sorts of dukedoms, but the prince ship means you're either married to or descended from the monarch. Smash him. I'll take my round of applause now, please, Mohammed. Thank you very much. And I'll. Do everyone get a paper and pen. And I'll give you this thing. I'll give you this. It's a bigger show in town, this. You know, we're going to be sharing a question from last night's pub quiz with you after the travel news. Love it. Steve's. In Kensington. Steve, question or answer? It's a question. James, nice to meet you again. Likewise. Spoke to you last week about the airline pilot. You're not really supposed to go on twice in two weeks. Right, James? My question wasn't a joke. How did he get through twice? What's going on? You can't just laugh and carry on. What do you think this is? I'm going to make that sort of behavior illegal. Go on. What's your question, James? How do you get decaffeinated coffee? Just ask for it. No, I don't mean it like that. Supermarket, mate. Supermarket. I mean, what sort of question is this? No, no. They've got aisles of it in budgens. It's next to the caffeinated coffee. No. How is it done? How is the caffeine abstracted from the coffee? Oh, I don't know. Sounds complicated. We've had this before. We've had this. Not only have you broken the rule of repetition by coming on two weeks in a row, but you've also asked us. I'm sure we've had this before. Didn't. Extracting the coffee. How do you extract the caffeine from the coffee? All right, so I'll leave it on the board. I'll leave it on the board. It's a nice question. Thank you, Steve. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. Why is a cobweb called a cobweb? Does sneezing sound different in foreign countries? I like that question, but I'm pretty sure the answer must be no. Until I remember no. Anyway, you tell me. Why does Janet's milk get a skin on top when she heats it up? We've done the duke and the Prince Philip and how do they get the caffeine out of decaffeinated coffee? The time now is 1215, mystery hour, with James O'Brien on LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. Why is a cobweb called a cobweb? Do sneezes from foreign sneezes sound different? Why do we get skin on top of hot milk? And how do you get the caffeine out of coffee? Professor Hal is here. Professor Halley is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and the patron saint of mystery hour. He's on the line now with an answer to. I would predict it must be the caffeine question. Yes, it is. And one of the things you pointed out was we may have heard this before. You haven't got a rule about people asking the same question before. Did you do it yourself before? I regret to inform you that you've jumped early. How? You've jumped early, because, to be fair, if you've answered it before, then someone listening will have heard you answer it before. And as an educational professional, you should have been more interested in the dissemination of the knowledge and the repetition thereof. I am interested in dissemination of the knowledge. So someone else could have rung in with the answer that you provided last time and the whole purpose of mystery? I would have been fulfilled for another generation. And you might, we might get another science question later in the hour. That's a lot more complicated than the caffeine one, and one that you haven't answered before. Well, I should have kept my powder dry. You should now. And we can't go back in time, and it is a bit of a groundhog day mystery house. Fair enough. Can't fill your boots. Okay. It's all about solvent, really. There's various methods that coffee beans are decaffeinated. Sometimes they just use hot water and they make essentially strong coffee. And then they extract the caffeine from the coffee using dichloromethane, which used to be used as a dry cleaning solvent. So what comes out the, how does the dichloromethane gather the caffeine, as it were? So some things are more soluble in water and some things are more soluble in dichloromethane because that floats underwater right there. So difference in their polarity that they form a bilayer like salad dressing with the oil on the top and the water on the bottom. Okay, so the caffeine sort of. Yeah, the caffeine coalesces, then it would be in water, and therefore it migrates to that. And then they, and then they granulate the liquid that's left to turn it into instant decaffeinated coffee. They just dry it out. They freeze dry it? They freeze dry it rather than boil it, so that all the volatile nice things don't boil off. Sometimes they use water, and all the caffeine and all of other volatile nice things goes into the water. And so the beans are then useless. They throw the beans away and then they use that water to do another set of beans. And because the water saturated with all the caffeine and the other bits and pieces, it doesn't, the beans don't lose their nice volatile aromatic things. And they can be then used to make nice coffee solvents. It's basically three or four methods, all involving different solvents. And the caffeine's been used to make your tablet to make you stay awake at night. Do you get a round of applause for rep for doing an answer twice? Well, that's technically a repetition of the round of choices of recording, isn't it? So I think that's fair. Golly. So good. Thank you, Hal. See you soon. Natalie is in hull. Hi, Natalie. Question or answer? Hello. Hello. Question or answer? I've got a question. Please carry on. Okay. And I recently bought my cats some catnip toys. Oh, yeah. And they went pretty wild about it. There was drooling at the mouth that was going crazy, running around the room. And I just wondered if, like, big cats are affected by it as well, or is it just domesticated cats? Does it have the same effect? They love it, don't they? Catnip? Yeah. What's the one they don't like? What's the stuff they don't like? Oh, cat something. The stuff you put on furniture, if you want them to stop scratching it and stuff like that. I see. No man are really well behaved, so they don't need that. So do lions and tigers and lynxes react to catnip? Yes, I'd like that question. Thank you. Oh, thank you. I'll find out for you. It's 24 minutes after twelve. Do big cats react to catnip? Do sneezes sound different in foreign? I've had a tweet from Japan, or at least from a japanese listener on the sneezing question, but I can't read it out because you really are confined to calls during mystery, Albert. But it's not as daft a question as it initially seemed. And why is a cobweb called a cobweb? Gary is in Maidstone. Question or answer, Gary. Hi, James. Question. Carry on, mate. Silent tape in english language knife. No. New. What's the originality of it? Where does it come from? It's really boring. It's really boring in old English. It wasn't silent. Is that it? Yeah. And you can see this if you look at german words like nicta. I can't think of a word to prove it, but some, I think they're called cognates. When you find a word in a foreign language that corresponds with something in your own language, and in the Germanic, they'd still be announced the g as well. It's not just k, is it? Because you get gnome. And in old English, they were. They weren't silent. It's that simple, I'm afraid. Oh, I know, mate. Sorry. Okay. All right. Cheers. Cheers. My name Alex is in Leeds. Alex, question or answer? I've got an answer. James, carry on, mate. So it's for the is. Or how do you get the skin on the surface of the milk? No, on Janet's milk. Janet's milk. Alex. Janet milk. Janet's milk. Not Janet milk. That sounds a bit indecent. On Janet's milk. And that's different from. You mean Janet is in the person that asked the question? Yeah, yeah, it's her milk. Why's she got skin on her milk? Well, basically, I think it's because the fat in the milk is more buoyant than the other parts of the milk. So it rises to the surface. That's why you get sort of more. More skin on cream and custard than you do on skim milk, for instance. And then obviously the fact rises to the surface and sticks together. It binds. Yeah, yeah. And then probably. Right, leave it out for longer, sort of as some of my housemates do. It sort of looks as if it dries more and more and it looks with. Yeah, the air also sort of aids the evaporation from blurring it. You're a student? I am indeed. I don't know why that was so obvious as you started discussing unwashed coalescing coffee cups and what have you. Milk. And what are your qualifications on this one, then? Sort of just general scientific knowledge. General. So what are you studying at Leeds? Philosophy, psychology and scientific thought. I'm just a little troubled by that. I think at the beginning of what you. I mean, obviously you could be making reference to the great Rene Descartes. Now that I know you're a philosophy student, but I don't think you were. I think you were expressing a degree of uncertainty. Well, I mean, if you look at sort of, you know, large walruses and seals as well, they also have fats, not only for insulation, but for buoyancy as well. So fat would float. Fat would float. It would separate from. I mean, that's probably how you skim milk. Ultimately, when you go from full fat to skimmed, it probably involves a cooking process, a boiling process. I'm just a little reluctant to give you the round of applause on the grounds that there's a distinct absence of certainty, but there's a strong whiff of plausibility in your answer. But that's not really enough. I think this is pretty certain, to be honest. I mean, unfortunately, you can't do that. Now you're playing catch up because you came on all uncertain. I think it must be. I think you said, I think I thought I had you in checkmate there. Well, I think you're probably right, but I just. The qualifications criteria doesn't seem to me to have been properly fulfilled. Yeah. Shall I ask Joan? I'll see what Jones thinks. Okay. Stay there, young mate. Crikey, Alex. Sorry, pal. You know what Jones is having? None of it. Really? Am I out of it? Yeah, he's just out of it. You're out of the game. Haven't you got a lecture? You've got a lecture to go to. It is an exam period. Of course it is. Exam period. Nine grand a year. Your parents are paying or you've borrowed to pay for this. Everyone's on reading week. Reading week's about a month long now. It's 1228. Alex. That's tough. You've made me feel a bit uncomfortable, Jones. Actually, I feel a bit awkward now, but there you go. If you can improve on Alex's answer, or just sound more confident while providing the same one, you could get yourself a round of. Now, just speaking of mysteries and quizzes, I told you to get a pen and paper. I know most of you won't have bothered, but if you did, just write this down for me. Write a capital j, capital M, small o, capital t, capital d, small I, small b, and then in small letters, lowercase letters, the word in underlined, and then a capital p. So you've got j, m O, t, D I, b in p, the capitals for the j, the m, the t, the d and the p. Now, at the pub quiz last night, one of my neighbors nailed that. That is a statement. Capital J, capital M, small o, capital t, capital d, small I, small b in capital p. And he nailed it. And I am still reeling in admiration. Now, it can't be impossible or amazing, because it was a question in a pub quiz, so it must. But how the hell he did it, I do not know. If you can do it. Don't cheat. But if you can, see it's a statement, it's not a figure of speech or a proverb. It's just a statement of fact. And obviously, the clue is contained within the cases, the capitals and the lower case. I think it's incredible. And I will solve it for you before 01:00 today, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1234. Give me the pub question again, Jimmy. I missed it, tweeted Daniel, bringing a degree of intimacy into the program that I rather enjoy. Tweeted it. So if you want to have another crack at that, I've just tweeted it. So it's an abbreviation of a statement. We're doing mystery out. Questions that still need answers include poor old Alex in Leeds. There's a few accusations of discrimination. Georgia is certain that he should have got the round of applause. She suggests that Jones, the engineer and I just unfairly discriminated against him. Well, I'm afraid it's too late now. There's no use crying over spilt milk or even skinny milk. I think you're right. I think we might have done the catnip question before. But, hey, I can't remember the answer, so let's do it again. Does catnip affect big cats? And why is a cobweb called a cobweb? Cliffs in stains, Cliff. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Computers, hard drives, don't matter how big they are, they very quickly get clogged up with the information that you choose to store on it. Now, us, our brains, we take in images, sounds, smells and everything, every day on a colossal scale. We do that we can recall for the rest of our lives. So what is the storage capacity of our brain? Are you expecting an answer to that question? That's why I called my. Ha. What would the answer look like? I don't know. I'm thinking, you know, somebody's got an idea in gigabytes and. Yeah, that's what I was worried about. A comparison, you know, because our brain is relatively small, obviously, but the way for yourself is fanatical. Yes, it's amazing. So, yeah, it was just, you know, if anyone's got an idea. Well, so, in. In terms of computer memory. Yeah. Or any other unit of measurement, really. I know you sort of think, how many books can the brain contain? Do you see what I mean? It. Yeah, I just. I'm the reason I asked whether you were expecting to get an answer. Obviously, it was a slightly rhetorical question because you wouldn't have rung in if you weren't. But I just. I don't know who would. I mean, I can't quite imagine where the answer is going to come from. That's why it's a mystery. Very nicely played there, Cliff. Let's see what I can do. 1237 is the time Lynette is in Sutton. Question or answer, Lynette? It's a question, James. Carry on. I just wanted to know if anybody could explain this phenomenon to me. Whenever I do my weekly washing, and I do, like, duvets within the washing. Yeah. The washing, when I put it in the dryer, always ends up inside the duvet. Did you hear the dullness rule when I set up the conversation? Were you surprised that this one got through? Because I am, but I don't know. I just asked whether it's been asked before. Well, I mean, it's always, why does your washing end up inside your duvet cover? Because your duvet cover's got a whopping great hole in it, is the answer. Even if I put two duvet covers in the. In the washing, it ends up in one duvet cover. Because once there's something in it, the hole is. No, it doesn't. You're lying. Liar. It doesn't all end up in one. What doesn't? Washing. Your fibbing. It does. It does not. It does not. That's magic. It's not a mystery, though. It all ends up inside because it's got a hole in it. If it didn't have a hole in it, it wouldn't end up inside. It bangs about all over the place. It's easier to get it than it is to get out. I don't understand what's mysterious about this. Well, why not to do. That's not what you rang in. You can't just bring a second duvet into the question up. There was no mention of a second duvet. Why not both duvet covers? That's not what you asked. Whenever I do my washing and I put my clothes and duvet cover inside, why did the clothes get caught up inside it? No one ever mentioned a second duvet cover. Okay, the second duvet cover came about because you're telling me that they all end up in one duvet cover because it's got a hole in it, obviously. No, but you can't have a second duvet cover. It's not a second. It's like the grassy knoll. There's no one that. You're not having this. Okay, so is it not a mystery then? Well, I don't think it's true. I think you just invented a second duvet cover because you realized the original question wasn't very good. No, no question was, it's been bugging me for quite a while now. So you didn't. He never looked at your duvet cover and thought, oh, look, it's got a big hole in it. I've refrained from ringing you before because I thought, hmm, maybe they would. Somebody's brought it up before and it's been answered. Can't believe you got on. Is there an answer? Yeah, I've given you the answer. It's got a whopping great hole in it. Do you think that's the reason? Who else are they gonna get inside your duvet cover if there's no hole in it? See if anybody else can come up with another answer. Yeah. Whose show is this, yours or mine? Yours. Thank you. All right, I'll leave it on the board. I may even allow the second duvet cover to appear. Claire's in south end. Claire, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. I was doing some homework with my son this morning and it's always fun. Why didn't you do it last night, Claire? We did, but they have swimming and it didn't have much time. Save it for the judge. Why didn't you do it last night? Why didn't you do it last night? The worst thing you can do before school is have a hurry to get the homework done. He's got to eat his breakfast, get his uniform on, knot his tie, brushes her. The poor little fella. You should have done it last night. Night is slack. Mumming is what it is, Claire. We did half of it last night. Didn't quite fit. So. So we were reading. Wine o'clock, was it? Wine o'clock, was it? You get to bed. Mummy needs a glass of pinot grigio. That's what I think I can. I think I see that unfolding in south end. Oh, you've been watching me go on. Yeah. So, anyway, my stomach rumbled. And of course he giggled, because any bodily noise is funny to a seven year old boy. And he said, why do our stomachs rumble? And obviously, by saying, I'm hungry, wasn't going to satisfy him. So we're just wondering why, physiologically, what is actually happening in your stomach when it rumbles? And the only thing I can think of is there's something to do with the juices in the stomach. But then, if there's no food, why would there be? And what is going on? So he wants to know. I think you've already done it. It's the acids, isn't it, that break down the food? But of course, if there's not as much food there as usual, they're still bubbling away. You just got to put food in for them to start munching on. So it's like, go on. I thought the food. I thought the acids and the juices, everything only start going in the stomach once you start eating like it does when you put it in your mouth. No, it's always there. It's permanently there. I think you should get your professor back on. I can't believe this today. Is it a full moon or something? Everyone's having a pop at me and I'm omniscient. I'm knocking him out the park and nobody's noticing. This is ridiculous. It's stomach acid bubbling. And if your stomach's full, you wouldn't actually. I think maybe when it's empty, it echoes more. I don't know. These are pearls. These are because I've often wondered, why does it make more noise when it's empty? I think because it's like a chamber. It's like an echo chamber. An empty tummy. Yeah, but it doesn't always rumble when it's empty, so why would there sometimes be. All right, fine. I'll just ask someone else, then. If you're not going to take my answer. Why does stomach rumble? Why does stomachs rumble? Happy now? Well, yeah. I need to pass on the message to my son when I see him. I will stay tuned. Why does stomach rumble. So, do you think the duvet. I bet you like the duvet cover question as well, didn't you? You know what? I had to laugh, because it happens every time, it really does. And you're there untangling everything. But I'd never really put much thought into it. No, I wish. You wish you'd left it that way. It's 1242. Can we get an answer for Claire? Why does her stomach rumble? Does catnip affect big cats? Why is there milk on top? Skin on top of Janet's milk? What does a sneeze? Can you sneeze in a foreign language? I'm getting lots of reports that you can, but they're like phonetic, I need to know the noise. So if I had been brought up in China and I sneezed, would I make a different noise from what I make now? Having been brought up in Kidderminster, dip acts in Leicester. Dipak. Question or answer? Come on, then. It's basically the answer to the sneezing one. Oh. If you build it, they will come. Basically. I'm from asian background, I'm hindu. My dad, rest his soul, we need to sneeze. He needs to at you, anything like that. He's going, you totally made that up. How did he go again? How do we know that that's linked to your dad's, that original, original country, rather than. It's just a charming habit that he had. No, it's gotta be, because I'm also. When I've been to India and stuff, and people sneeze, they never say, like, they just really. They all sneeze really loud, louder than we normally sneeze over here. And they always. And that do they all say a tumba, something to that effect? So they stick a plosive on the end of it. So where we go, achoo, you're indian will go, achoomba. Something like that. And also, I remember where I either had it somewhere, but people. The reason why people bless you is that when you sneeze, people think a little bit of souls leaving you. No, they don't. The reason people say bless you is it was an early symptom of the great plague. So if you started sneezing, you were going to be dead soon. So they say, bless you. That's why in the ring, a ring of roses, you say, a tissue. A tissue, we all fall down. Or in the indian version, a chumba, a jumba, we all fall down. Who gets a round of applause? I do, don't I? No, you do. You do. I'm sorry, I just go to the ring of roses. What is going on today? Deepak, have a round of applause on me. No, it's a lovely answer. A jumba. I'm going to do that in future. I'm going to retrain myself to sneeze in the indian fashion. That's because I'm such a fan of multiculturalism. I shall sneeze like an Indian. That'll show you, Nigel. It's 1244. So at 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, if you follow me on Twitter, if you've been wrestling with that riddle, what statement is this? Capital J, capital m, small o, capital t, capital d, small I, small b in capital p. Someone solved it on twitter, which is a mystery to me because I like, at the pub quiz last night, what statement is contained within that acronym? How did you do it? I just don't understand. That's what mystery is all about. Before we get back to the cause, I just want to read a quick email out from Anne, because you must remind me if I forget to do stuff. It's not like the bb. I haven't got 500 people working in backup. So Anne says, listen to every day. Thank you, Anne, for the kind was yesterday you started to tell us about a play you'd seen and you learned something about the impact that stress can have on our lives. You said you'd tell us about it today. Please, can you tell us? Yes, we've talked about it a lot, how stress affects life expectancy and we've worried about it a lot together, obviously, but there is a medical explanation for a particular type of stress. Bad stress, you'd call it, rather than the sort of stress you feel before stepping on stage to play Hamlet or something like that. So nasty stress, it has an effect on you. Not dissimilar to angina, it sort of contracts and you get less oxygen into your blood. Think about it. When you're stressed, you're like this. And the thing you should do is focus on your breathing. Not in a sort of hippie californian yogic way, just focus on the out breath, sort of combat stress and live longer. It's a brilliant play. I know it's an odd thing to have pulled out from a piece of drama, but it really stuck with me because of the conversations we've had about life expectancy. Do you remember when someone told us that as you head east on the Jubilee line, you can shave years off your life as you do it because you're moving from wealthy areas to poorer areas and they've actually tracked life expectancy according to that journey from the center of this city to the east of it. It's heartbreaking when you think about it. After all these centuries of supposed social development, the amount of money you've got when you're born will still determine how long you live in a way that nothing else can. And the stress thing, it's very simply, it's what a decent nurse, a good nurse will tell you is focus on the out breath. So instead of all the. All that malarkey, just really focus on breathing out and then you can breathe in again, because you're naturally going to do that. And then focus on that. Purse your lips, breathe out until you've calmed down a bit. And that way the kind of stress that actually does have a negative effect upon your health can be dealt with. Let's get back to mystery hour. We have our second professor. We don't think we had any professors last week. We've gone for the full brace this week. Professor Martin Smith is a professor of robotics at Middlesex University, joins me on the line. Now, what question would you like to answer, Professor Martin? It's the one I can think I can do a slightly better answer on the milk. Better than Alex, the philosophy student. Yes, yes, carry on. Well, water can only evaporate from the top. Yes. So what's left gets more concentrated and then of course, you've got the effect that at higher temperatures, chemical reactions work faster. So everything that's left in the milk, the fats and proteins and all that stuff can mix together much better and form. And they'll form this kind of gelatinous skin. Yes. So I like that. So it's the higher concentration of fats and proteins congealing. I mean, it would happen eventually, would it? At a lower temperature? As long as it didn't curdle or go sour in time. Yes, yes. As the water evaporates, whatever gets left gets more concentrated. I think now you've justified Jones the engineer's decision not to. Give the round of applause to Alex, the philosophy student. Good, good, because we've gone. We've gone. This sounds academic to me. Remind me of your qualifications, Professor Martin Smith. Well, I did. What's the word? Chemistry and physics and things at university when I. And now I'm professor of robotics. Professor of robotics. I used to be a professor of robotics, but only on the dance floor. I can't believe I said that out loud. Thank you. Thank you. If you're interested. Pod on. I can do a bit on how you stop the skin from forming. Oh, yeah, go on. That was what Janet really wanted, wasn't it? Well played. Yeah. You would stop, effectively stop the evaporation by putting a lid on it. Oh, yeah, of course. Some cling film over the top before she. Before she heats out. Paper or a lid. It's in the microwave, so not metal, but. But a bit of cling film. Or just. Or just. Just a side plate. Or a plate. Yeah, of course. Of course. You should stick a lid on it, Janet. Stick a lid on it, Janet. Professor Smith, many thanks. 1253 is the time Kelly is in Croydon. Question or answer, Kelly. Answer, Jane. Brain capacity. Question. Forgot about that. Yeah. Come on. Oh, very good. See what you did there? It was an accident, actually, but I'm glad you liked it. I think about it, yeah. The fact of the matter is, we don't know. We just don't know. Scientists don't know. But it is agreed that we describe it as unlimited. Can I give you an example? Please do, yeah. Yeah. An example of why it's so hard to study. Because what we remember. There are many factors influencing what we remember and there are many factors affecting what goes in. In the first place. The example I would give you is eyewitness testimony. If somebody witnesses, for example, a car accident, when you get them to write down what they saw, somebody saw a red car, somebody saw a blue car and so on and so forth. And it's because memory is very much affected by how much attention you pay to something. Your past experience in life and of course, things can be in there, but we can't get them out, which is why hypnosis can come in and stuff like that. Exactly, exactly. In fact, in more serious eyewitness testimony, they do use hypnosis. So if there's a blockage for emotional reasons or something like that. But the reality is it's so, so difficult to study. Some people can't remember what they did yesterday. Some people can remember something that happened at school, something nice that happened at school. 550, 60 years ago. I think you've got a round of applause. I just need to inquire after your qualifications, please, Kelly. I'm a psychologist. Okay, yeah. Is that it? I'm a psychologist and I have taught this aspect of psychology amongst. Well, there you go. You see, Jones, the engineer's degree was in psychology, you know. Well, there you go. So he probably knew this somewhere in the back of his mind, but just couldn't retrieve it in the moment. Highly unlikely. Highly unlikely, Kelly. Anyway, it's under you, this. Thank you so much. Thank you so, thank you so much. I've forgotten how to play poker and I can still remember the rules, but I haven't played online poker for about a year. At a game last night, I was so shockingly bad. So either everyone else has got better or something has happened to that sort of sense memory. Jazz is in bagshot. Jazz. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Come on, then. About why your stomach rumbles. Oh, yeah. Well, not mine, actually. It was. No, yes. Carry on. Peoples, peoples. You have to think of your sort of intake and digestion and waste system as one link. Okay, system. So I'm everything from your gullet all the way down to Uranus, where it comes out is all linked, including. Including your stomach and all of your lower intestine and everything? Yes. And the way it moves the food through is it moves it in waves. Like a pulse. Yes. Peristalsis. Yeah. Once it starts. Okay, if you say so. Once you start at the top, all the way down. And Chinese sneezing. Indian mate. Careful, don't be racist. It goes all the way down. And it's why. A good example is when you get up in the morning, you eat breakfast. Not long after you've eaten breakfast, you need to go to the loo, because it starts that process off. And eventually, after it pushed your food down your throat into your stomach and through your stomach, it then pushes what you had last night out the other end. So the rumbling is just movement and I mean, the acidic argument will be part of it as well, because some of it does just sound like bubbles going off in your tummy, doesn't it? But that's only going to happen because the food is moving. Yeah. Because it's either because you've eaten or you're in anticipation of eating. Yeah, there you go. You nailed it. Qualifications outside of my normal field of expertise. I was listening to the medical hour on LBC three nights ago and the doctor answered it. Fantastic. Was it Doctor Snake? It wasn't. It was a lady doctor. Lady Doctor. Fantastic. Doctor dawn. It was Doctor dawn. That was it. Fantastic. I wonder if she realizes that she's actually due your round of applause on this. Well played, Jess. Nicely done. Marcus is in West Hampstead. Question or answer, Marcus? It's an answer, James, and sadly, it's about the duvet. Oh, for heaven's sake. I haven't given an enormous amount of thought. No, good. I'd actually be cross if you had, but we're very short of time. Go on, quick. Well, actually, your lovely producer came up with the same answer. And basically, it's a combination of a lobster pot theory and centrifugal force. So if you can imagine, when a lobster goes into a lobster pot, it's got a hole at one end, but it can't get out because the hole is smaller. But at the same time, centrifugal force means that anything's in there will never come out. So there you go. I'll take my round of applause and back on with what I'm doing. Carry on with you, please. Sort markers out. I'm not arguing with him. God, I hate to hear his answer. If he had given it a lot of thought. That's it for me for another day. We'll be doing it again tomorrow from ten. I am James O'Brien. This is LBC, and the answer to that riddle, Jim Morrison of the doors, is buried in Paris. And no, I have no idea either. Sheila Fogarty's next. Thank you very much.