What is the origin of 'The Penny Drops'? - 12 Nov 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery Hour is above Connors, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that can't be achieved anywhere else. Find out why. If you're new to this part of the program, or indeed, if you're one of the many people that are new to this program in general, then I would compare it, I think, to the newspaper columns where a reader writes in with a question and then several weeks later another reader writes in with the answer. You'll get your answer by 01:00 today, and the guarantee that I make to people who don't join in is this. By 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now. And given that the podcast of Mystery Hour frequently ends up in the iTunes comedy top ten, I could probably guarantee you a giggle or three as well. But in the first instance, you have to provide me with the questions, and you do that in time honoured fashion by dialing zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Hit those numbers now. You will get through what is the why, the wither, the whence, the wherefore? Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? What does that mean? Whatever the question is, as other people will be interested in the answer, we went up a bit of a cul de sac last week with a question that I thought was poised to be the definition of a dull question because it began with someone describing his bus route home, but it actually turned up a really interesting revelation about a pet cemetery in Kensington Gardens. But generally speaking, if it's about motoring or if it's something that only you will really understand, it probably won't get on board. And the only other circumstances in which we'll politely invite you to jog on Beth and Jess are answering the phones today, so you can expect a warm welcome, but please respect their reluctance to put you on, because they're far too polite to tell you that you're boring. If I was answering the phones, it would be a much shorter exchange, but it's probably just as well that I'm not being dull or repetitious. Okay, so if we can remember dealing with your question relatively recently, we'll probably pass up the opportunity to do so again. And if we can't quite imagine who else would be interested in the answer, except you and like minded souls. We might well politely invite you to move along as well. There's two phone lines free currently. I will only say the number when I have phone lines open. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Otherwise, I'm told that judicious use of redial is the best way to negotiate the busiest switchboard in the land. It's the busiest switchboard in the land 15 hours a week. But for this hour, it's the busiest switchboard of the 15 hours. So be warned. Don't be put off. Just be warned. Six minutes after twelve, Phil's engraves end Phil question or answer? Question, please, James. It's a simple question. Why do we have orgasms? Why do you think? No, I've got no idea. You do know it's probably the most obvious question that we've ever had on mystery hour. Well, if it is, I must be fixed because I've been thinking about it for years and I don't understand. To reproduce. Well, the orgasm isn't relevant to reproducing. But why would we bother having sex if it didn't feel fantastic? Why would we not? Because we've got a driving instinct to get. No, we haven't. Oddly enough we haven't. We've just got a driving instinct to feel fantastic again. No, no, no. How do you feel towards your kids that drive to look after your kids? Let's not. Hey, it was a five word question, all right? And we're going to deal with that question. Why do we have orgasms? Because the way it makes you feel encourages you to have more sex. And having sex is what keeps the species alive. Mate. This isn't. This isn't an opinion. This is a statement of biological and evolutionary fact. No, no, no. Because we wouldn't need to have an orgasm to reproduce. But. So. No, you're not listening to me, Phil. I know what you're saying. No, it's called the truth. I don't think. Explain it to me again and I'll see if I just say it once again. Right. It's the psychological reward for doing something that is necessary to the continuation of the species. So why do you eat nice. Why do eat food that you like the taste of and not eat food with no taste at all? So wait a minute. I'll put it another way. This isn't supposed to last as long as I have one to reproduce. No, no, you don't. But the hope of getting one is what makes you go after the act that will. Cause I'm gonna have to give myself a round of applause now, Phil. No, no. Definitely not. No, no, because we don't. You don't need to have that. But I've already. I've answered this to the satisfaction of everybody else listening. It's just you that's unsatisfied. No, no. I can see. I can. I can gather people's thoughts throughout the country and I don't think. I don't think you're right. I don't think. Now, I know you don't, but you're the only person in Britain who can't see how wise I'm being. Sorry. Are you left to see if there's other people? No, there isn't. I've just asked. No, I don't think that you need it. And I think we reproduce. Hands up if you think I'm right. Sorry. Oh, my God. There's been car crashes, there's airplanes falling out. Everyone just put their hand up. There's 30 people in this house and none of them have put their hands up. They can't hear me because you turn your radio off when you get through on the phone. No, I don't think. I don't. All right, Phil. I'm going to give myself clap now. All right, now. There you go. Why do we have orgasms? Because it makes us have sex. Why do we need to be encouraged to have sex? To make sure the species survives. Phil, either. Either you were barking up a tree that is yet to be discovered by botanists, or there was something going on that I can't understand. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Stuart's in Basingstoke. Stewart. Question or answer? Question. Please follow that. Well, what it is. My daughter named Abigail wants to know why the storms are named after people. What else could we name them after? Or why. Or should I. Should I rephrase it? Where does the name come from? Where do they get the names from? There's a list, isn't there, that the American Meteorological Office, I think, or some international meteorology organization has. It goes in alphabetical order, if you've ever noticed, but I think that. No, I know the answer to this because I think it's been asked before that the. I think the list is just put together by the people working for that organization so some of the names will have a personal relevance for them. You don't answer that confidently, though, do you? Do you know why I don't sound confident? Because I was really cocky with the last bloke. And I was just thinking, if you've tuned in for the first time, you're going to think this is some sort of exercise in me being a cocky know it all. Which it is, obviously. But I don't like people to realize that quite so early in proceedings. So I'm sort of pretending to be unsure. Stuart, you got a load of applauses last week. No, last week. Last week was a. Last week was a very dry mystery hour. Okay, well, today it is and I still haven't got the answer. You have. I've given you the answer. But I'm pretending to be unsure in the hope of people not thinking that I'm arrogant. Yeah, okay, but the questions on the board, though, I believe. Yeah, I've told you the answer, not confidently. Have you? No, but that's because I'm pretending not to be arrogant and you've admitted it as well. The question's got to remain on the board, then. Well, why? Because you've not answered it confidently. Well, but that's a faux modesty that I'm doing. It doesn't affect the factual accuracy of the answer. The fact that I'm pretending not to be confident. You can't splutter if you try to reply to that. That's not appropriate. So you want me to leave it on the board, do you, Stu? If I understood you correctly. Appreciate it. Thank you. Carry on. Why? What was it? Why are storms named after people? This is for Stuart's little girl, Abigail. Jimmy's on the isle of dogs. Question or answer, Jimmy? It's a question. James. Yes, sir. This might not be your day today. What? I'm having a ball. But it's just something that you said earlier on in your last show, about 20 minutes ago. Something like that. When you said about as the penny dropped. Yes. Where does that originate from? Like, do you savvy? Do you get it as the penny drops? Where. It's just. It'd be those fairground games, won't it? Yeah, but why the penny? Because it was the push, push, push penny games. Where the penny drops means you've won. Must be. I'm supposed to be sounding not. I'm supposed to not sound like a know it all and you're just cured. It's got to be that, hasn't it? Put it. Nah, put it on the board. Why? What's everyone telling me to stick it on the board for? I invented this game. You can't teach me the rules. All right, the origin of the phrase, the penny drops. You're on and why. Why are storms named after people? Twelve after twelve. If it turns out that I was wrong about the orgasms, I'm going to go home early. Eddie's in Heathrow. Eddie, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Come on, Eddie. Right. I want to know what happens to radio waves. So you transmit your radio wave? Yeah, I pick it up on my radio. But what happens is it still dives in the air forever and ever and ever. Well, that's a really good question. I mean. You mean getting weaker and weaker and weaker? Yeah. Well, the thing is, I noticed I travel up, down the m four. I lose LBC around reading, but if I put digital on, it comes through again, but it's like then on a time delay, so it's obviously still in the air. We can only concentrate on radio. Digital's not radio waves, is it? Or is it? Why am I even talking out loud? I have no idea about anything on this issue. Well, there you go. I don't have to pretend to be ignorant now in the hope of disguising my innate arrogance. This is absolute, abject, honest ignorance. Can I just have a quick word with Jones, the engineer? Eddie, of course. Can you just talk among yourself? Actually, Mark's here. Do you want to have a word with Mark in Dagenham? Yeah. Marco. How are you, fella? How am I? I'm good, yeah. Jones? It's digital radio waves. It's still radio. Is it? Is this a good question? Is this a good question? Yeah, I've got a good question. All right, let's just focus on FM, Eddie. We'll just focus on, like, you know, analog. Do radio waves go on forever? Is that what we're doing? Yeah, that's basically. I mean, if you think about it, I am in the air at any time. There must be millions and millions of voices going on that no one can pick up on. God, that's a definition of tragedy right there. Imagine that. Imagine my voice going off into the ether and people not being able to hear it. Don't say it, please. 1214 is the time, Mark, I'm going to keep you just there during the travel news because I'm a little late for this. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Let's crack on with mystery hour. Mark is in Dagenham. Mark, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on. Yeah, okay. I'm sitting here eating oxtail. It's a caribbean dish, I believe lovely. May I just say, was a bit of ketchup. Bed. Anyways. Anyways, I'm eating oxtail, as I said. But are you eating oxtail, by any chance, Mark? Excuse me? Are you eating oxtail, by any chance? Uh, I might just be eating oxtail. You should have mentioned it. Go on. Okay, the question is, where's the rest of the ox? Are there loads of oxes running around without a tail? Yes. I've never heard of the rest of the ox being told no, but they do. Well, if you just call. Instead of calling it an ox. Perhaps if we just called it a cow, then you'll. A cow and an ox are two different things, James. You should know that. Well, in some contexts they are, but in the context of ox tail, a butcher will tell you that they're not. So are you telling me that the oxtail I'm eating is actually a cow's tail? Yeah. And how sure are you on this, James? Well, about 150 million%. Well, I love the way you're saying it, as if I might be going mad. Are you really telling me that an ox tail is the culinary name for the tale of cattle? Yes, I am telling you that. Well, you're a smarter man than me, James, and that has stuck. That has put a question to bed that I've had for the last 15 years. But this is going awfully, this mystery. I know the answer to pretty much every single question. I must sound insufferable, even more unbearable than usual. Yeah, but the thing is, James, I think you're just, you know, you ain't really on the jamaican cuisine. I think it's an ox running around here, David. No, there is no. I promise you, there are. There are no herds of tailless oxes cantering through the savannahs of Jamaica, Mark. It's simply not happening. Yeah, well, okay. Well, next time I go to Jamaica, I'm gonna have a look at a few options. And if I do find that they're running about without a towel, you're the man I'm gonna come and see. In the meantime, I'll just help myself to this. 22 minutes after twelve. Once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever you're left with, however improbable, must be the truth. It's 22 minutes after twelve, and you are listening to mystery hour. We still need to know why storms are named after people. The origin of the phrase the penny drops, all of which I've done. It's just ridiculous. And the radio waves go on forever. Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding at the University of Science at the University of Brighton. Did you. Where were you last week? We missed you. No, you didn't. I was on last week. Was it the week before? No, I was off there. I was in Devon. Let's start again. Professor Howe, question or answer? I've got an answer to the radio question. Oh, good man. Radio waves are part of the electromagnetic spectrum, which is just. They're all the same. They're the same as light waves, microwaves, tv waves, uv, infrared. They just mexican waves. No, they're not on the electromagnetic species, they just differ in their frequency and their wavelength, but they all travel at the speed of light. So if we turn it around and, say, use light as a frame of reference, you know that the closer you are to a source of light, the brighter it is. And as you get further away, the weaker it becomes, because all the energy is being spread over a greater surface area. So radio waves do indeed peter out. The intensity of a wave in this regard is proportional to one over r cubed. That is, it gets weaker and weaker the further you get from it. So I lose LBC at around about. Just outside Brighton in Hollingbury. I can't say. Just sit there and think about why I'm losing. I've seen you parked up in that lay by, desperately trying to squeeze the last few minutes out of my show, Professor hall, and I'm very flattered, very flattered to see it as well. I actually wait at peace pottage services when I'm coming in mystery. So the original caller is actually correct in that respect. But, I mean, if you think about Fermi's paradox about where are all the aliens and why aren't they watching our tv, that's the reason why it just peters out till it's non existent. And is it actually non existent or is it just infinitesimally small? Well, you can look at it from both ways. It can be half of a half of a half. That's what I was about to say, actually. So technically, there'll be some cosmic echo, and actually, cosmic Echo got all their albums. No, there's, you know, the static on a tv. Yeah. That actually, some of that is caused by the echo of the big bang. And I think that's a really sweet thing. Shut the front door. No, I'm not going to shut the front door. The big bang, 14 billion years ago, we can still see the echo on our static on our tv. That's incredible. It's a sweet little fact, isn't it? I'll tell you what? That's covered my backside for that. You will know something by 01:00 today that you didn't know before. Angle of mystery, hasn't it? It has. And the answer to the question is yes, sort of. But you wouldn't be able to pick it up. No, you wouldn't. But we pick up radio waves from distant galaxies because they're so powerful that even though they're petering out, we can still detect them. I think pulses have got their x rays, but it's the same kind of thing. Round of applause for Professor Hal. Great work. 24, 25 after twelve. Tony's in Croydon. Question or answer? Tony. Hi, James, nice to talk to you again. Likewise. My question. I was laying in bed with the missus the other night and we was coming up, why am I so much hairier than her? And then we sort of thought, other animals aren't necessarily hairy. So you get like, you know, dogs, they're male and females of the same, cats, they're the same. So all other mammals seem to be equally hairy, whatever the sex is. So I understand why men and women have got a different amount of hair, because it's obviously a hormone level thing. But why is it in humans that we are different when it seems that every other mammal is pretty much the same? I love this question. This is the whole point of mystery hair, in a way, to say things that are under our noses every single day. I'm not suggesting your missus has been under my nose at any point in things that are under our noses all the time, that we've never stopped to think about. Why are men hairier than women? Yeah, so I know it's like, obviously the testosterone gives you more hair, but in other mammals it doesn't appear to be. It doesn't seem to matter, does it? And the question of attraction changes with time. And anyway, I can't think of a point in human history where hairy women were particularly desired. But there have been plenty of times where the model of beauty was different from what it is now. It's as much about nurture as nature. Here's my thought, which I'm not going to claim is right, but I'll be interested to find out if it's even remotely relevant. We. They stayed in the cave while we went out hunter gathering, Tony, you see? Yeah. And that means we, you know, we needed fur, we needed a pelt, but because they were always indoors, they didn't. That's not going to work, is it, on any level? Yeah, probably. Well, I can sort of see that. I mean, I sort of see. I did sort of. That crossed my mind as well, but I didn't really see. You know, if you look back, it's even more. If you look at how crow Magnum and that was supposed to be depicted, then they're actually even massively more hairier than the women. It's a good. More so than they're different than differences today, so. But my. We're very slowly moving to an equally hairy hairiness or equally unhary. I'm not. I don't think women are getting hairier, are they? Well, none of them. Most of them shave it off. 27 minutes. Well, that's part of the issue as well. If women didn't shave that well, they're never going to grow a beard, are they? If they do, they end up in a circus. It's 27 minutes after twelve. Why are men hairy? Why are men hairier than women? Radio waves don't go on forever. What's the origin of the phrase penny drops and why are storms named after people? William is in Chiswick. William, question or answer? Answer, James. The penny drops. It comes from when the press gangs used to chat somebody up in a pub and when they got drunk and drunk, had dropped a penny in their pint glass or their beer glass or whatever, and when it dropped, they'd realize that they'd been talking to a recruiter for the navy and they'd just been signed up. The penny receiving the penny was, was the signing of the contract to join the navy and I couldn't physically take somebody aboard the ship against their will until they paid them and that. And that's why if you go in some old pubs, there's, you know, the mugs tank, whatever they're called, they've got glass bottoms so people could see whether there was a penny in the bottom. I can't remember where I know it, but I'm 99.9% certain it's true. It's a brilliant answer. I was really hoping you were going to come through with qualifications at the end saying you can't remember where, because I think I learned it in school, but I can't remember much of school. But the odd fact comes to me now. Did you go to school in Chiswick? No, I went to school in east London. All right. It wouldn't have affected my answer to whether or not you're going to get a round of applause or not, but it might have informed some decisions that we've got looming in our own lives a couple of years down the line. I really, really, really like this answer. But it just seems so obvious to me that it must refer to slot machines. No, it is. I'm 99.999. I know. You said that's. That's a worthless statistic. The other. The other saying that comes from the same practice was hoodwinked. And I used to throw something over your head at your. Over the other than take you aboard the ship and then that. That actually became illegal to do that. I want to give you a round of applause, but everybody else is telling me it's slot machines. How are we going to go definitive on this? Because. I'll tell you why. Because let's look at it logically. Slot machines, it refers to. Penny's drop refers to a realization. It doesn't refer to winning anything, right? So therefore, a realization. A realization wouldn't be a realization you'd won something. It would be, you know, the term the pennies dropped would. Would mean something entirely different, entirely different connotations. Whereas if it. If I'm right, then the penny drops actually really fits the bill, because the pennies drops. And you realize once the pennies in the bottom of your glass, you realize you've just joined the navy. He's very, very good. But I'm still not convinced. What should I do? Give me a round of applause, James. It's the only time I've phoned in to your show in like, I don't know how many years, and we're neighbors practically. That's true. Now that's going to go out there, all the people listening, although that's going to go out there now as the truth. That will now become the truth. If it wasn't already. But you know what? If it wasn't already, it should have been. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 25 minutes to one. Dear James, I know you make all the rules to mystery hour, but the professor's answers are normally so informative that perhaps you would consider giving him a second round of applause. Best wishes, James, from Sutton. Oh, I've considered it. Mark's in Manchester. Mark, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. Everywhere I drive, all over the UK, I work as a courier. I go past fields and I see round straw boughs and rectangular straw bows. And I wonder if there's any reason why some of them are wrapped up round and some of them are square, or whether it's just the machine that they use to process it at the time. So is there any, like, advantage to doing it? Yes. Yeah. Yes. You never saw round ones when we were kids. You never saw round ones, did we? Did you, back in the day? Not really, no. And obviously the square ones would be easier to stack more. The rectangular ones would be the stack than the round ones. I just wonder if there's, you know, if it's a different product or different combine harvest. I got a brand new combine harvester. I like that question. The brown ones are enormous. And there have been. I'm being very, very serious now. There have been recorded cases of them escaping, as it were, rolling down hills and hurting. And I think there was a death involving an old 1970s rock star. Unless I've gone completely do lally. I mean, I do have an urge to go in and push them over. You do, don't you? That's kind of what I was alluding to. But don't, because it can end in genuine tears. I think there was a case of it being fatal. They are flipping heavy, Mark. I shall get you on the board now. Why the round bales and the square bales? Why and what? And indeed wherefore 1237 is the time. Cedric is in Stafford. Cedric, question or answer? Answer. Really? I think the kind of you. Ten minutes back. Yeah. Who was suggesting that the penny dropping was about. Are you launching a stewards inquiry, Cedric? Well, yeah. Okay. The answer was right. He was right in a way, in that the coin that was offered by press gangs to sailors and what have you was the king's shilling. Of course it was taking the king's shilling. Yeah, yeah. So it couldn't have been a penny. That's right. So, I'm sorry, I don't think his answer was correct. I don't think it was either. I didn't. And the glass bottom tankers is all correct. There was a lot of other factual history there, but not the penny. And I think the origin of the phrase to be taken for a mug is linked to the glass bottom letting you see that the shilling had landed in there. Hey, I haven't heard that one. Yeah. Taken for a mug, taking the king's shilling, but not penny drops. I think you're right. We're going to have to. I mean, he's got it now. He's taking it to the bank. So I don't know what we're going to do. Do you, Cedric? You don't really. You haven't provided the right answer. So theoretically, you're just a sort of saboteur. You've come here to ruin Williams day. You don't actually get. That's not my intention. I'm on your side. Well, in that case, you can definitely have a round report. Great work, Cedric. Steve's in staines. Question or answer, Steve? It's inquiry as well. Oh, leave it out. Go on. I was visiting Cheddar Gorge with my children earlier this year, and when we was in the caves, we was told that the reason the penny drop phrase was made, because the fishes within the caves, the early explorers used to wedge pennies in them, and if there was any movement in the cave, the penny would drop and they would hear the penny drop and let them know to leave the cave. That's pretty good, but it. The only qualification I have for this is the guide inside the cave. He's the man that told me that that's where the origination of the phrase came from. And it's very, very. The thing is, mate, once bitten, twice shy. I really want to believe you, but I really wanted to believe William and he turned out to be wrong. So you've got me. You've got me caught between a rock and a hard place, Steve. Just like the penny. He swore, Brian, that that was where it was. I don't think it counts. There's no way it could be that. Do you know why? What? How would it go? How would it have got into common parlors? Because, like caving and potholing and what have you, they're relatively small. Numbers appear. Just never. I mean. Well, give me another. What? Spelunking. There you go. How's. That's not caught on in the wider world, has it? No, sure enough. That is true enough. I just don't see it as a hobby that has a broad. So if it was joining the navy or if it was slot machines in the fair, everybody would have a. Have a sniff, as it were. But. But caving. Caving. Terminology informing a figure of speech that's now used by the entire english speaking world. I don't. I just. I'm not having it. And it's well known that guides lie. Of course. They make stuff up. They have their patter. Yeah, true enough. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you seem like a nice bloke, but it's not for getting it right. All right? Courtney's in. No more. I don't want any more stewards inquiries on that. I just want the right answer on the penny drops question, which will be the flipping slot machine. It's my fault for pretending not to be arrogant. This would have been fine if I'd just been my usual conceited. Self and answered it, took the round of applause and moved on. So lesson for us all there, Courtney's in Newnham. Courtney, question or answer? Hi, James. I'm going to help round out your answer on the hurricanes and the tropical storm naming. Fantastic. Go on. In the seventies, the World Meteorological Organization decided to start naming each storm by a short first name for obvious purposes, as you've said, to help identify and classify each one and to help inform the public public as to which storm is being talked about. When obviously tropical storms and hurricanes can happen at the same time, you can have more than one happening in the world, so they need to be identified independently. A couple of interesting facts on the names. They go in cycles. Every six years there's a list of names alphabetically run. The only letters that are left out are Q XYZ. Those names are never used. If a hurricane is particularly. We're never going to have Hurricane Quentin. You got it. Exactly. If a hurricane is particularly intense or historic, like Katrina was in 2005, the name Katrina will be retired and never used again. And if we have a season where we go past the letter w in hurricanes where we've had too many, then they'll start using the greek Alphabet. So we'll get Hurricane Alpha, beta and so on. Gamma, delta, epsilon, zeta, eta, theta. What do we know? What's replaced k for Katrina now? Oh, gosh, you got me now. No, I hope it's Kevin. I hope it's Kevin, perhaps, yeah, a bad press. Kevin's name's going out of fashion. I'd like to see Kevin making a comeback with a k. Very well be Kevin. Courtney with a c, I presume, not a k. What do you. What are your qualifications? I was a geography teacher. That'll do great work. Great. What a lovely question. I hope Abigail's happy as well with that. There we go. The World Meteorological Organization. And you can see the list of name. She's absolutely right if you search for it. I should have mentioned earlier that you're not allowed to search for stuff while we're on air. You have to know it from your own learning. Like Courtney, because she used to be a geography teacher, or William Incisick, who thinks he learnt it at school but got it wrong. Anyway, Professor Hal, who is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. You can't google it or look it up. It's not a biggie. But it is the reason why mystery hour is fun. Because it's about recognising celebrating stuff we've picked up on our travels, we still don't know why men are hairier than women. Zero 345-606-0973 we don't know what round hay bales are for. And it was, and this is just because it was an odd thing for me to say to the mark in Manchester. There was. It was an early member of Elo who was killed in a freak accident when a hay bale crushed the van that he was driving. I just had, you know when you've got something just niggling away in the back of your brain. I knew that there'd been a serious accident, and I knew it involved a pop star from back in the day. It was. It was a gentleman from Elo. A few of you have been in touch to point that out, which is astonishing, really, isn't it, that you're Mike Edwards, who was a cellist in Elo. And funnily enough, Elo were part of the reason we had the conversation we had in the last hour. I don't know if you were listening to the stuff about poor white kids not having any role models, because I watched Jeff Lynn on the one show last night who was the founder of Elo, wasn't he? And he also went on to be the traveling woolberries. And he had such a broad, brummy accent. I thought, how rare is it, the accent I grew up surrounded by? How rare is it to hear that accent? And that's part of the problem of aspiration, is that, you know, usually in the professions, people from those sort of backgrounds shed their accent and the trappings of their past the closer they get to the prize. 1244. Ben's in Barnett. Question or answer? Ben. It's a question. Carry on. You know that migrating birds, for instance, like a geek, the phone lines go very. The phone lines gone. Very funny. I don't know if you've come on hands free or something when you shouldn't have done. No. Is it okay now? It's a little better, yeah. Go on. Migrating birds, flying the v formation. Why is that? Aerodynamics. So even when there's only two of them, still, one flies, like, just the side of it. Yeah. It's like cyclists, you know, the slipstream. Okay, so you take it in turns. You even. Even two cyclists, it's worth one tucking in behind the other. You see it in the Tour de France, don't you? They take it in turns. It's a bit of a slipstream. You even get it in running, I think, but less pronounced. It just produces a slipstream. So the other bird uses less energy to fly, then they swap round and the other one uses a little bit less energy to fly. Okay, great. Boom. Get in. 1245. Ten minutes. Two. One is the time. You are listening to mystery air. We need to know the difference or the reason for the existence of round and square hair bales. Why are men hairier than women? And we haven't nailed down the origin of the phrase penny drops, which is a shame. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Lee's in Horsham. Lee, question or answer? Answer. Come on in. Hay bales. Hay bales, yeah, round bales. The machine to bail. It is a lot cheaper than the big square bells. Is it? The big square bails. Stack. Stack nicer. And you get more material in a smaller space because you don't end up with big gaps in between the. I'll ask you what your qualifications are first. Farmer. I thought you were going to say that, so why don't I remember? And this is not as personal as it sounds. I don't remember seeing round hair bales until a little bit later in life. Is that just me being nuts? I grew up in the countryside. I grew up on a farm, actually. They used to have the little, little bales. Yeah. They were very labor intensive because you've got to have somebody stacking them by hand. Right. Well, you usually have a gang of people stacking them by hand. Yes. Then they went to the bigger bales when we got machinery that could stack it, when machinery sort of evolved to the point where you can lift more weight. So it's that simple. Yeah, just that now you pay a little bit more money to get the machine that does the. The blocks that you can stack up. And if you don't need to keep. What about keeping them in a barn? If you've got a massive round one, can you keep it outdoors more safely than you could? Um, some people keep the round ones outside. You keep them inside and outside. So. So just give me. Give me those. Sorry, just for the. For the tape, give me the one sentence answer again. The difference of why we have both, um. The round ones take up more room than big ones do. So you spend a bit more money and you save a bit more space. Yes. Lee, that is a superb. How is farming at the moment? You doing all right? Are you struggling like a lot of your colleagues? Struggling. Well, keep it up, mate. It will pass 1252 and buy british if you go out today, unless you can try and get it from a local supplier rather than a big supermarket. In fact, best of all, get it from a farm shop or a farmers market. Nick? Sim Watford? Nick. Question or answer? Hi. A question. Carry on. If someone's depressed, they're sometimes described as having the blues. And in fact, even if you're just feeling a bit sad, you might say you're feeling blue. And then, of course, there's the music form, the blues. So I just wondered why it's called the blues. Why not? You know, if you have a black mood or you're feeling grey. Why is it called the blues? I have a phrase in my head which is blue devils. Ah, okay. And that's all I've got. Do you know the origin of that? It's probably a play. Ah, okay, well, I don't. I didn't know that, but. But that's all I've got. All right, so how are we gonna play it? I mean, I can't get a round of applause for that, but I think that is the origin of it. How far back does that go? Blue devils be sort of 19th century, probably, yeah. Okay, I'm not gonna give myself a round of applause. No, no, please don't. 1253. So maybe we'll get a better answer than that before close of play ten. But I don't know why. But it's in the same part of my brain that the knowledge that a 1970s rock star had been killed by a hay bale was that's where blue devils came from. And I was right about the other things, so I could be right about this. Nick, great question. Thank you. Why do we call it the blues? It almost sounds like a song itself, doesn't it? Have you heard the classic blues track dead man's blues? Down now, now, now. Didn't wake up this morning. No. That just me, is it? Andrew's in her hill. Question or answer? Andrew. It's a stupid inquiry. James. What on? You said about the birds flying in a v form. Oh, no. Go on. How embarrassing. Only recently, you'll probably not to know this. I just read about it last week. It's called uni hemispherical sleep. Yes, of course. And it's crocodiles and various species of birds use this where the half the brain is asleep. Right. They're actually asleep in the v formation, keeping one eye on their mate. And it's the leader who's doing all the work. The rest of them are taking time off. That's what I said. That's what I said. They're only taking time off because they're in the slipstream of the leader. Yeah, but they're asleep when they're doing it. That's irrelevant. This stewards inquiry has failed. Well, okay, I'll take it to the board. Let me know where they are. Struggling. I could carry on hiding from them. I think that's irrelevant. I mean, they couldn't. I'm sure you're right. I believe you. And I've added that. What was that wonderful phrase again, Andrew? I want to add it to the. To the nation's vocabulary. Oh, he's gone semi hemispherical. Uni. Hemi, yeah. Huge mistake. We don't want to go down the semi hemispherical. That'd be disastrous. Uni. Hemispherical sleep, which you wouldn't be able to do if you weren't in the slipstream of the bird in front. So the reason why they get into the formation is to create the slipstream in which the birds behind can rest. I didn't realize they were resting as much as falling asleep, but I'll take your word for it. Sammy's in Epsom. Question or answer, Sammy? Answer for you, James. Go on, then. Why are men hairier than women? Yeah, it's to do with testosterone. Men have higher levels of testosterone in their body. But then that in itself poses a challenge, because our ape ancestors were all hairy. Men and women. Well, exactly. So the theory now is that it must have been natural selection whereby men had gone for women, they deemed them to be younger. And really, by having that, that's the theory that exists right. Now, where did that theory come from? What are your qualifications? I studied biomedical sciences and I've written a book on the connection of science and religion. And you think that the reason why men are hairier than women is that men fancy less hairy women? Essentially, that's what it was. Natural selection coming down to the molecule molecular level is to do with the testosterone. But it doesn't make sense when you look at it from an ancestral level, because all eight were hairy. So the only solution that we've come up with in the biomedical will be natural selection. So the less hairy genes being passed on more than the hairy genes? Exactly. Genes that code the testosterone levels to determine whether or not you know how hairy you're going to be. Yeah. Go on, then. Mohammed's embarking question. Thank you, Sami. Question or answer, Mohammed. Hi there, Jane. Great show. First time caller, so just a bit. Little bit nervous. I can't answer for you, James. Go on. It's the blues question. Basically. Picasso, the artist, right? He went through loads of different phases and I think it was even his girlfriend or his wife. I'm not sure which one, but I think he passed away. Something happened, basically, and he got upset over that. Everything he painted was in blue and that's where the term origin is from, like the blues period. But if you look at all of his paintings. No, it's not. You're right. Picasso had a blue period, but that's just because he did monochromatic paintings mostly in blue and blue green. It's got nothing to do with his mood, I'm pretty sure, because. Something to do with him being depressed. But that's what I know from primary school. I thought that. So I thought, why not just give it a four? Well, fair play and. But you're not having anything for that. Well, it's not true. That's why we had the blues before Picasso was around. Peter is in Ilford. Peter, question or answer? James, you were right. There you go. Round of applause for Peter. What? What was I right about? Peter? This time on the piers and other plate, arcades, etcetera, the most popular slot machine was what the butler saw. When you put your penny in, all is revealed. The penny drops, all is revealed. And it may not be specific to that actual game, but when the penny drops, you get a result. That's it. You get what you're paying for. Peter, you've already had your round of applause, but have another one. Have we done it? We nailed it. We actually cleared the board. This is amazing. It's the first time Beth's been in charge of Mister Aaron. We've done every single question. Congratulations, Beth. Have a round of applause. And Jess, who is also answering the phones, have a round of applause. John Stapleton is here. Does it sound like I'm desperately filling time, John, before handing over to you? Absolutely. Absolutely. Not that you're far too erudite. Ridiculous suggestion. We'll do it all again tomorrow from 10:00 the next voice you will hear does indeed belong to John Stapleton. Thank you very much indeed, sir. After 03:00 a group of boys were kicked out of an Apple store, accused of contemplating shoplifting. They say, because they're black. Do you think this is a racially motivated action? Go to the LBC website, LBC dot co dot UK and make up your own mind. After two, Britain's workforce has increased by nearly half a million. But that's mainly because more people have come here from Europe. A cause for concern or a reality we should learn to live with. But right after 01:00, the prime minister is in Downing street. This afternoon talking to his indian counterpart a man accused of religious intolerance and feigned to prevent the deaths of 1000 Muslims. Mister Cameron says doing business with India could earn this country millions of pounds. But should he be rolling out the red carpet for a man like this? From LBC, this is John Stapleton. And that starts next.