What causes us to 'snearly'?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. We need to undertake one of the more crunching gear changes of our time together and completely change the tone and the mood of the program. An awful lot of love coming in for all of the callers in the last hour, and I just add mine to it. Actually, I really would. Sometimes that's all you can say. Now, however, we turn our attention to. To lighter matters, to the weekly invitation from me to you sound like the chuckle brothers. From me to you. To secure the kind of satisfaction you can't ordinarily discover anywhere else on your radio. It is mystery hour. If you know what that means, and you have a question, then by all means hit the numbers. Now, if you don't know what that means and you would like me to explain, then bear with, because I will. It is the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features where a reader writes in with a question, like a proper question, not completely nuts. It can be something like, why do we do this? Or what's the origin of that? Or where does that come from? A who, a why, a where, a what, a when, a whither, a whence. Even the occasional wherefore. And someone else will ring in in the course of the hour with the answer. Now, don't start rolling your eyes. It's a lot more fun than it sounds. It's one of those examples of the journey being more important often than the destination. But the destination contains illumination, so the destination is pretty valuable, too. Why we started doing this is lost in the mists of time. I think it had something to do with elections, because elections are always on Thursdays, and we can't talk about elections on the Thursdays when there are actual elections. So there's always a little bit of a mad rush for things to talk about that are absolutely copper bottomed and insulated against any accidental mention of the election that's unfolding on the day that you're not allowed to talk about the election. So we came up with quite a few schemes. And wizard wheezes Misrehau seems to have survived. The reason why it survived, I think, is because we all, we all recognize the changing nature of knowledge. I don't want to sound too pompous, but the bit late now, but the way that when I look at my children doing their homework and when I think of my parents looking at me using a calculator, they could use slide rules. It's not the same just because I've got this, I've got quite a good memory, which sometimes can be mistaken for intelligence. Just because you can remember a lot of stuff doesn't actually mean you're good at working stuff out. And that. I think that attribute that I have is becoming devalued in the modern world because all the stuff I can remember, if someone starts banging on about, I don't know, middle eastern social values, and I can say off the top of my head, didn't Richard II's twelve year old widow get locked up by Henry IV before he married her off to his son, who became Henry? That kind of memory stuff, that's useful because it's when you find the information that hasn't specifically been asked for. But in terms of you ask me a question and I know the answer, that doesn't really matter anymore because you could just google it. This is an hour, at least in your week, where you're not allowed to google anything. And we take a moment to admire and even celebrate people who have accrued knowledge over the years. It's a very roundabout way of saying, if you've got a mystery gives a ring and someone else listening might be able to answer it. 034-56-0609 is the number you need. You'll only hear me say the number when I've got phone lines. Free. I currently have two free and Beth and Ava are working furiously to sort the wheat from the chaff. They are, however, both scrupulously polite, so if you get the impression that they are treating you like chaff but are too polite to say so, then do me a favour and jog on. Free up the phone line. For somebody who's a little bit more wheaty than you, this is probably not an hour for gluten free radio. Johnny's in Ipswich. Johnny, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Johnny. And what's the origin of a testimonial match in sport? Well, presumably it's. It's in the early days of professional sport, isn't it, when. When you hung up your boots, you weren't going to go on. Okay, yeah. Who invented testimony? I mean, I'd be amazed if it's not a way of giving you a kind of payoff, it's a retirement payoff, isn't it? Because you quit professional sport long before you would retire from any other line of work, and you do it back in the days when you weren't being paid 300 grand a week, or whatever it is these days, you needed a bit of a check to go on your way and it's just sustained but where it started, we shall find out for you. Yeah. The origins of testimonial matches. Why do you want to know? Are you due one? My local rugby club at home, they do a testimony. They sort of do a testimonial. Years now in rugby league. Yeah. So, yeah, obviously semi professional. And he's going to probably need some sort of surgery when he stops playing rugby. It's a cheerful way of looking at it, but it is still. I mean, his testimonial year means there'll be more than one fundraising event for him. Yeah, I think he finished at the weekend. The small club played at Leeds Rhinos. Oh, okay. Oh, yeah. Okay, cool. I like that. Origin of testimonial matches. You've answered your own question about why we have them. But where did they come from? When did they get introduced to the. To the sporting calendar? Duncan is in Acton. Duncan, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Please carry on, Duncan. Why do some berries that plants produce, why are some of them toxic? Because I was under the impression that a berries evolutionary purpose was for animals to eat it and then spread the seeds around. So why would a plant develop a berry that's toxic? It seems to be going against its own purpose. Oh, I mean, I know why. They're not toxic to everything. Are they not? I don't think so. I think they are. I think if any, you know, brightly colored berries are warnings to animals that they don't eat me. Because you'll get sick, and we know that they're toxic. No, they're toxic to us. But birds do eat them, don't they? Maybe. Otherwise, what's the point of the berry? Well, exactly. Yeah. No, I think you've got your toxicity back upside down. I'm pretty sure they're toxic to people like us because we're not going to do anything. No, that can't be it. They can't. They can't have accommodated the existence of a flushing toilet, can they? No, no. Why would an animal not be susceptible to that toxin, you know? Oh, that's not tricky. There's lots of things that are poisonous to some species and not poisonous to other species. It's like, yeah, I can't give my dog tomatoes. I may have got that wrong, but there's definitely stuff I'm not supposed to give the dog. Grapes. Yeah, great. That's because they're poisonous. Is it? Why else would you not give a dog a great. Because it makes them sick, but it's not poisonous. He is poisonous. You give him enough grapes, they'll be sick enough to die? No. All right, so berries. Berries. What's it all about? That's your question? Really? What's. What's it all about? With the berries? Yeah, what's going on with the berries? Why are some toxic. Or a better question, maybe. Why are some toxic to some animals and not to others? If that's true, I may have just made that up by accident. I think it's true. I think it's true. But also, if a great. If something makes you sick, how can it not be a poison to you? Well, yeah, I mean, point. Well, some things make you sick because you might be allergic or just. That means it's poisonous to you. Okay, now I hear you. I like that. Why? What are you. What. What are you thinking? What do you. What are you kind of. Why do you want to know? I don't know. It's one of those questions that's bugged me for ages. Why would a plant make its berry toxic or poisonous to an animal? It's the purpose of the berry. Yeah. I think that the answer will be part of what I've just clumsily posited, as it's not poisonous to everything. But I'm going to shut up now because I can't just keep repeating my theory. It's not going to become true by repetition, is it? Any more than taking back control. Will. It's 1212, Duncan. Thank you. Vida is in Fulham. Vida, question or answer a question, please, James. Carry on. Vida. I was watching. I love football, and I was watching my favorite team getting pummeled the other night. Who is your favorite team? Is it cousin Ashton, who were defeated by Kidderminster Harriers in the national Northern Vanorama League? No, I would like it to be them right now. It's Chelsea, I'm afraid. Oh, ugly, ugly scenes. I didn't want to have to say that, ugly scenes. But Troy Dini looked very cheerful, so you know, every cloud. What do you want to know about Chelsea? Because I think the answer is probably about a week and a half. Yeah, actually, I could have a better deal with that, but my husband actually asked me this question and I thought he was being annoying, just trying to stop me watch the game. But he said, what's the largest number that's ever been on the back of a football shift? Well, that's just the question of what's the largest squad? Is there a maximum limit on a squad for a premiership team? I don't think there is. It's just a question of the wage bill. Isn't there probably is a maximum number of. He said to me, could you have a three digit number on the back of a. Look, if you were Lionel Messi, right, and you were going to sign for. Oh, let me think of a club that's not historically very good. Just off the top of my head. Oh, Watford. Who thumped Chelsea the other night? If you were Lionel Messi and you were going to sign for Watford and you said, I want to be 666. I want to have 666 on my back. The number of the beast. I'm 99% sure they'd find a way to do it if that was a deal breaker, aren't you? Do you think I can blame my husband for the stupid question? I don't think it's a stupid question because I haven't gone definitive. I just need to clarify exactly what the question is. Do you want to know what the longest, the largest recorded number on the back of a premiership shirt is? I have to admit to something. I googled his question and I came up with a story saying that some chap wanted a number 85 and the FA had refused him the number 85. Oh, okay. I think it was Sanchez. I think he went to West Ham. Did he? I don't know. But not the Sanchez that just moved from Arsenal. The other one. Yeah, sorry, I'm not as proficient as I should be. No, you're brilliant. I'm hanging on your every word. Vida, this is an education. I am going to find out for you what the rules are about numbers on shirts and if we get a proper expert on, like, a referee or some such, then I'll ask him enough questions to definitely answer your question, whatever it actually is. Thank you. And can I say something girly to you? I thought you handled the last hour really sensitively. Thank you. It's not going. I didn't want to pick up the phone even to call you with my stupid question by the time you ended, but. Well, people pay me enormous compliments on the program when they ring me with personal situations like some of the ones we heard in the last hour. And I will never be. I'll never underestimate that privilege, I promise you. But thank you. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I don't normally involve texts during mystery hour, but I'm going to make an exception today because this is such a quality piece of information from apt regarding highest numbered shirts. James could potentially be Michael Foote, who, for his 90th birthday, was registered as an official player by his beloved Plymouth Argyle. And given a shirt with a number 90 on it. Whether or not that answers Vida's question, I do not know, but I'm leaving it on the board. What are the rules regarding numbers on football shirts? Why are berries poisonous? Given that the whole point of berries is supposed to be to get creatures to eat them and spread the seeds within. And what's the origin of testimonial matches? It's a bit sporty today, isn't it? Uh, I've got two phone lines for you. One phone line free now. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Should we just crack on? I don't know. I keep feeling that I've forgotten to do. Do you ever get that feeling right when you leave the house without your keys? I get that on air sometimes. I think, what have I forgotten to do? Everyone knows what time it is. You know what you're listening to? You know what my name is? You know what's going on? Yeah. All right, let's get on with it. Marks in Sunbury on Thames. Question or answer, Mark? It's a question, actually, James, I want to talk to sleeping. Carry on. Why is it that when you've had a deep sleep, you wake up with really puffy eyes and a puffy face, yet if you've had a light sleep, you don't. Is it eat water? Is it what? Water is it? I don't know. I mean, if I've had a really deep sleep, I look in the mirror and I. Oh, my gosh. Yes, the eyes look puffy, but if I've had a light sleep during the night. No, you're. I mean. Oh, really? Because I was thinking. You were. You were thinking more long, long and short naps, but you're talking about quality of sleep over a similar period of time. Puffy if. Puffy if. Deep. Yes. Not puffy if. If. Um. It's beautiful. Shallow. Well, let's not get carried away, Mark. I like it. Is something to do with lymph nodes and water. What? Shut up. I don't know idea what a lymph node is. Why do I do this, Mark? It's so embarrassing. So it's inability to say no. Right. Deep breaths. Ok, everybody ready? I've no idea, Mark. I shall find out for you. Which is, after all, the original point of mystery. Hour before it descended into some ludicrous ego trip in which I tried to answer every single question. How's that? Absolutely brilliant. Let's crack on. 22 minutes after twelve. Why does Mark's face go all puffy when he's had a good kip? Zero. 345-606-0973 James is in Barnett. James. Question or answer? Hi, it's a question. Carry on. Why do you urinate when you're nervous? I don't. Well, I'm about to pee now. On the radio. Stop it, you disgusting man. So you think. You think. No. Yeah, well, you say you wet your pants, don't you? When you're really, really nervous, you mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I like that, actually. Is it to do with adrenaline? Fight or flight? Could be idea. I. Sure. No, of course you haven't. That's why you rung in and I've just broken my rule about not trying to answer every question I. That one, though. All right. I'll find out for you, James, I promise. You're welcome. What's the relationship between urination and nervousness? Oh. Three four five six zero six zero nine seven three. Miles is in Marylebone Miles. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. What is. Why are some of us squeamish and some of us aren't? Squeamish? Um, you mean in terms of blood and rats and some. Some of us are scared of stuff and some of us aren't? Well, I can't even listen to the casualty theme tune in. My mum, my sister, my brother can't get enough blood and guts. What's that about? I'm torn here, mate. I'm trying to work out whether this is a brilliant question or a rubbish one and at the moment could be rubbish. I'm leaning towards brilliant, actually. I really am. Because. But only because of what you just said about the family. Because I was about to say, well, what's the point? You know, you can never know this. It's like asking why some of us like apples and some of us don't. But you've got people with presumably quite similar life experiences. Exactly. No trauma, nothing going on like that. Are you sure, though? Yeah. And also basically got phobias. But snakes and things. But they don't throw up or pass out when they see. What would happen if you were forced to watch casualty, then? I don't want to know. I can't think about it, really. Yeah. I used to have a producer who. I mean, this is weird. He had a phobia about the crime watch themed him because he had this weird. You laugh. In many ways, he was quite sort of socially crippled by it because he was utterly convinced that he was going to be on it. Being falsely accused of a serious crime. Every single time the music started playing in the background, he'd break out in a cold sweat. I just wanted to produce a casualty. Do they take into consideration how many people are squeamish? What happens normally when you hear a warning on the telly? Say there are scenes of sexual, explicit sexual scenes and some violence, and you think, we'll turn it up. So, quite often I think they do the opposite of express concern for the squeamish. I shall find out for you. Why is Miles so squeamish compared to his parents and sisters, who've had similar experiences and have arrived at. Yeah, that's actually really interesting, but I still have that caveat in the back of a. That it might actually be rubbish. Callum is in Highgate. Callum, question or answer? Answer. Carry on the shirt number. Question. So Ronaldo had number 99 when he played for AC Milan, did he? Well, not. Not the recent Ronaldo. No, I know the brazilian Ronaldo. Yeah. And that's the. Do we know why he had that? Was he fond of ice creams? I have no idea. Sorry. I'm so sorry. He liked a flake in his ice cream. So are you sure he had. And that's the highest one we're. We're aware of? I'm 99% sure. I don't know if that's. I mean, I know. I know he had that number, but I've never seen 100. Oh, I see what you mean. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'm also going to leak, because we don't know what the rules are and that's not in the Premier League. That's true, but apart from that, it's a great answer. It's actually a rubbish answer, but I've given him the round of applause. It's not. I think we're talking about the Premier League, every national football. Does FIFA govern this? I wouldn't have thought so. It would be local football associations. We shall find out more in the course of the next half an hour or so. Matthew is in Leeds. Matthew, question or answer? Good afternoon, it's Nancy James. Hello, Matthew, what is your answer? So, it's to do with the question with regards to berries and why some are toxic and some are not. And I'm quite surprised that you didn't give yourself a round of applause because you were pretty much bang on the money. You know what the problem? You know my problem is, Matthew? Go on. Modesty. Love it. So it's basically, some berries have evolved to have higher areas of dispersal, as much as if a berry is toxic and a human or a mammal eats it, they won't travel as far as, say, a bird, and the bird will travel and spread the seeds further so that the plant has more success. So a good example of this would be chillies. So chilies are only hot and spicy, so mammals, birds can't taste the heat in chillies at all, so they can eat them all day long, even scotch bonnets. And it will obviously spread the seeds for miles and miles and miles and help the can't propagate. And that is pretty close to definitive. I've got two thoughts. One is silly and one is serious. The first thought is, what if you ate a bird that had eaten lots of chilies? I suppose that's a bit like the question of whether a penguin tastes more like chicken or fish. I've got anandos for some reason in the back of my mind. And the second question is, what are your qualifications? I did biology, you know, just something that stuck with me. I'm not surprised. Just like chilis do, generally with humans and other mammals, but not, we now know, with birds. Round of applause for Matthew. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Great work. 1228 is the time. Squeezing another one. Carl is in Kenley. Carl, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Carry on, Carl. Hmm? Carry on. Good, good man. A couple of questions. A couple of weeks ago, the question arose, why do moths fly around artificial lights? And the answer came out that it's because they're trying to get to the moon. My question is, why would they want to get to the moon? They don't want to get to the moon necessarily. They are using the moon to navigate. Oh, I'm going to keep that. I'm going to keep the last 3 seconds on tape as the sound of enlightenment. Carl. It is indeed. I got two r's and then a wry chuckle. That's the hat trick of enlightenment. Never occurred to me. No, why would it? You're not a moth, are you? No, no, I'm not interested. Moth psychology, I must admit. Not even a. Well, they called lepidopterists. Is it? That's it, is it? Yeah. Not even got the Vegas interest in lepidopter. Lepidopter. Lepidop moths, have you? Yes. Well, I'm going to take a quick round of applause now. Thank you. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. And for raising a smile as well. Don't look at me like that, I'm getting skeptical. Look. Of course, moths use the moon to navigate honestly. Lawrence is in Woodford. Lawrence, question or answer? I'll have a go and answer, James. You're not filling me with confidence, Lawrence. Well, forgive me if I'm a little bit nervous. It's quite all right. First time caller. Oh, well, you're better late than never. What have you got for me? Testimonial. Yes, I'll come from the football angle. Testimonials were awarded for service. Yes. Do we know when? After ten years? Back in the day. You can't answer back in the day, mate. That's like the definition of a. When was it, then? Laura's. Oh, back in the day, mate. Back in the day, you say? Oh, yes, have a PhD, because now they're based more on a charity. But in them days they were given for service, but they still will be, because the caller was, was, was a fan of a rugby league club, a smaller rugby league club, semi pro, so they were having a proper testimonial season to give him a payoff. Obviously, when Gary Neville has a testimonial season, he already owns eight tower blocks in the middle of Manchester, so he will probably give all the money to charity. But we need to know when it started. And if you say back in the day again, I'm going to buy you. I know when it was. I know when it was also given to, like, groundsmen and people like that as well, weren't just players. Oh, that's nice, but. But it doesn't matter how much extra information you add, you're not going to get the round of applause because you don't know when it started. We need to know when it started with the first testament. Hang on, hang on. No, no, that's all right. I've got the answer. Do you want to know when it was, Lawrence, back in. No, mate. The olden days. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I don't know who'd be able to answer this. Possibly a psychologist. Squeamishness. Why? Why are some people squeamish and other people, not especially people who appear to have had very similar life experiences? They might be in the same family. Miles can't watch casualty, but his sisters can, and he wants to know why. Speaking of form of squeamishness, why do we micturate or urinate when we are nervous? I think that's got something to do with fight or flight, but I need an expert. Why does our face go puffy when we have a deeper sleep in a way that it simply doesn't go puffy when we've had a less deep sleep. The biggest number ever to appear on. What are the rules governing numbers on football shirts in the british. In the English Premier League? Okay, zero. 345-606-0973 we've done the berries and the testimonials as well. Have we missed anything else? No. Let's go to Portsmouth. Nathan is in Portsmouth. Nathan, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on, mate. We all love beans on toast. My wife doesn't. Right, well, everyone I know, actually, my wife doesn't either. Oh, all right. Wow. This is uncanny. Maybe we're related. The question I've got is, what beans are beans? That as in beans on toast, because they're not kidney beans. They're not. Well, what kind of beans are they? It's a borelotti bean, innit? I don't know. Why? Because Bellotti beans I eat and they're much bigger and they're white, obviously. Beans are covered in tomato sauce. They were white ones. Yeah. Little boloty beans. Mini mini bolotte bolotinis. I'll have to check it out on the back of the cross and Blackwell team. Do you go for cross and Blackwell? Not hines? Hines is great, but it's too much sauce in there, too water. Controversial. Yeah. This is what we've heard. I've never quite made the leap because for me it's a bit like, you know, it's a bit like buying own brand cereal. You stick with you, we stick with your Kellogg's and what have you. But you've made the leap over to cross and Blackwell. I've heard very good things about the cross and Blackwell bean. They're thicker sauce and a bit more spicier and they. It sits on the toast better. I find you should cook them for a bit longer, obviously. Don't put them in the microwave, do them on the hob and then you get that nice. Quite thick. But it doesn't say what kind of beans they are on the back of the tin. It's Borlotti. I'll check it out. Well, no, don't, because, I mean, that's not how mistrial works. I can't prove it to you, so I'm going to leave it on the board. What beans are baked beans? Yeah, I think they're Borlotti beans. But you're not having that because I can't prove it to you. And the bullotti beans, what you have seen are much bigger than your baked beans. Correct. I want to know now. I don't know why? I thought it was Borlotti. We tried to make them ourselves. Kids like doing it as well. Put sort of bacon rinds in there and all that sort of thing. Before the youngest was vegetarian, but we use Borlotti's. But you're right, they are much bigger than normal. Beans. Baked beans. What beans means Heinz. Ha ha. Zero. 345-606-0973 Alice is or cross and Blackwell. Alice is in Bristol. Alice, what would you like to say? Hi, James, I have a question for you. Please. Splendid. Carry on. So it's a question about sneezing, which I've been doing a lot of recently. Have you? You poorly? Yeah, a lot of it about. So I have a question. So when you're sneezing, you know, you feel that oncoming of sneeze and you can feel it's about to come and usually you sneeze. Exactly, exactly. But sometimes you don't. Sometimes it just fades away. It does. I was sort of wondering what is going on there that. That sneeze disappears. Well, it's. Presumably it's. It's a nerve ending that's being manipulated. Yeah. Tickled. And whatever is doing the tickling decreases in ticklishness. No, I'm sorry. You're close. There are. There are theories involving lights as well, but I always get it the wrong way or I can never remember which way around it is. If you want to sneeze or you want to make the sneeze go away, you look at a light, a bright light, but I can't remember which way around it is. So that's a fairly useless piece of information by anybody's standard. Yeah, because you can make yourself cough and you can make yourself burp. But I've never been able to make myself sneeze. You can if you get a feather and put it up your nose. Well, yeah, but not. Not reliably. I shall find out for you. So it's the fade that we're interested in, isn't it? Yeah. Why do some sneezes fade away? But they're not sneeze? Hang on, we can't call it a sneeze, can we? Because you haven't actually seen. We need a word for a faded sneeze. A snade. A snade. What we are. So we want to understand that the biological or psychological reasons for snades sneezes. What fade sneezes? That faint sneeze and snaid. I hope you feel better soon. I really do. I shall endeavor to put a smile on your face between now. And. 01:00. Why does. Why does Snades happen? Sneezes that fade zero. 345-606-0973 Tom's in Manchester. Tom, question or answer? Yes, James. Carry on. Tom. Squad numbers, Premier League. Well, obviously, England, there's a strange rule that the squad numbers must be consecutive and close to the current highest number. But what do you mean, close to the current highest number? That's the ball. But how can they be consecutive? I know, but you're not making any sense, Tom. You're not making any sense. What? The reason I know about this is when Swansea signed Renaldo Sanchez in the summer. Yeah, they gave him the number 85, but it was rejected due to that rule by the Premier League. Oh, I think, actually, Vader, who asked the question, alluded to that slightly, but she thought that Sanchez had gone to West Ham. So what did he end up with? Number 35. Which means that the previous highest one would have been 34 or close to it. Well, how close to it? Because 85 is close to 35. In the context of millennia, that's up to the Premier League. I imagine it's very subjective. What are your qualifications, Tom? Just a football nerd. And that phrase is the one that's in the books. Is it consecutive and close to the current highest number? Well, according to Swansea, this is what the Premier League told them the tweet is. Yeah, well, Swansea tweeted this out. Swansea. Swansea tweeted the PO rule that squad numbers must be consecutive and close to the current highest number. So you can't just have a random 85 if the current highest number is 34. Yeah, seemingly not. Well, it's never going to be much higher than the thirties, is it? No squad's ever gone into the 450s or forties, but in the Premier League, in the act show, he used to play for city, he was number 72. Well, how did that happen, then? No, I didn't. Oh, mate, I was about to give you a round of applause. You may have just underdone it. I don't know how it works. That's the rule that states. I mean, we've gone full reverse now. We've gone from pretty much definitive to you saying on the radio, I don't know how it works. I'm going to give you a round of applause. 1243 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I'm afraid that we are going to. We're going to rename the snade because Dean Richardson has tweeted, it should surely be called a sneerly that's beautiful, mate. The sneeze. That doesn't happen. We are now naming a sneerly. Let's get that into the vocabulary. How are we going on with the other thing that you were supposed to be spreading around the world, by the way? My theory that. Not theory, my false. My urban myth that we've begun on this program in the hope that one day someone will be told it with a straight face in a social situation, and they will think to themselves, oh, my God, I'm going to ring James tomorrow and tell him that it's actually now spreading in the world. What is the myth? Easy. Darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. Darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. If you're listening to this, imagine if you're listening on podcast at bed and you've already gone to sleep. Darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. Darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. And then one day, I've already told my children about this. In case it takes longer than expected to be disseminated around the world, somebody will say to you or me in a social situation. Did you know that the Earl of Dartmouth invented Darts because it was. There's more. Because it was too wet for archery practice outside Sue's endorse it. Sue, question or answer? Oh, it's an answer. My first time I've ever been able to answer anything. Well, I'm sure that's not true, sue. Carry on. It's about the mixturation, the. Why do you pee when you're nervous? Yes. Yes. So you were partly right about the adrenaline. Okay. It can make the blood, the kidneys produce more urine. But if you think about the bladder. So the muscle is. The detrusor muscle is the bladder bag sack, and then you've got the sphincter. So normally the sphincter's tight and the detrusor muscles relaxed. Yes. Yeah. When you're nervous, think about your body getting all rigid. The detrusor muscle will be tight, and so it presses on the sphincter, and then you want to pee. So it's because you've tensed up. Yeah. Qualifications? Nurse. Nurse. Yeah. We said nervous for a minute. I was getting worried. Round of applause for nurse. That was brilliant. Thank you. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mary is in healing. Back to mystery. How. Mary, what have you got for me? Question or answer? Answer, James. Answer. Carry on, Mary. But it's about beans. James beans. Mary. Beans. James? Beans means haricot beans. Haricot beans. Where the hell did I get borlotti from. I don't know, Harico. Haricot beans. Harry Coke. Qualifications. I tell you what, my mum used to use haricot beans to make baked beans, Boston baked beans, things like that. But I used to think, this will make you laugh. I used to. She used to say, I'm going to use Harry potts beans. Harry Cott. I used to think it was Harry Potter. That was the name of him. That's why I remember Harry Cott's beans, as he. Oh, I like it, yes, as in, you go, where'd you get your beans from, Mum? Harry Cott. Exactly. Harry Potter. Harry Potter. Harry Pot. It's french. It's french, isn't it? You see, there is a school of thought that says we should pronounce it haricut rather than Harry Co. For the very simple reason that we don't say Paris, we say Paris so we don't bring in the. I had an english teacher who used to say Don Quixote instead of Don Quixote, and when she explained why it made perfect sense. She would have been a Harry cut person as opposed to a hariko. Would you like a round of applause? Yes, please, James, I'd love it. Well, here it is, Mary, just for you. Thank you. We've got a problem. I've got three or four more questions on the board, but I've got five minutes left and no more answers. So if you can answer any of these. Done that. We've done quite a lot. Why do we get a puffy face when we sleep deeply? Someone's going to know that. Like a beauty therapist or a lymph node expert. Why are some of us squeamish and some of us not? I think the absence of any answer to that question suggests that my initial suspicion that it might have been rubbish could be proved true. But there's time to disprove that. Why? Why would you be squeamish and not. What happens with a sneerly when you're about to sneeze but you don't. Which we have decided to critinate sneerly. Which I think is rather splendid. What happens with a sneerly? What's going on? Why does the sneeze go away? Zero. 345-606-0973 I think we've done the football shirts. Although Tom in Manchester started well and faded, not unlike Chelsea the other night. The. That's it, is it? We've got anything else on the board I can squeeze in? One more question. 1254 is the time. Sean is in Brighton. Question or answer, Sean. Hi there. I've got a question, please. James. Carry on. Sean, who invented the weekends and why? God. On the 7th day he rested. Yeah, that's before religion. How about before then? Well, then there wasn't any. There wasn't anything, was he? Because he created the world, mate. And on the 7th day he rested. So what your question says is, what was there before he created the world? Oh, okay. All right. Sorry, it was a silly question. Not a silly question at all. It's a very good question, which has allowed me to highlight my biblical knowledge. Okay, but what happened when people worshiped cats and flakes and stuff like that? I'm afraid that's the second question. You have to ring in next week. Oh, I'm sorry. I'll take a round of applause, please. Thank you for your time, Sean. I mean, whoever it is that invented the weekend, if you want to come up with a non religious answer, my goodness me, we owe he or she a great debt. And of course, it ceased to be in the 19th century and beyond, you wouldn't get weekends off, you'd work seven days a week and you'd be jolly grateful for it. But don't worry, when Jacob Riis Mogg's in charge, we're going back to those days. It's just that no one else is telling you that yet. 1255 is the time John is in Sheffield. Question or answer, John, I have an answer for you. Splendid. Bring it. Well, it's for the Ionacho and the 72. The Premier League numbers bear with me. So the Manchester City have such a large squad, they register their reserves as well as their youth teams, so their numbers go into the seventies. So they registered Ionacho as 72 on that basis. That's just because their squad is so huge. And the rules still that Tom brought in, it has to be. They have to be consecutive and close to the largest one currently there. Yeah, just about. So they've got fifties and sixties, all sorts. Was there any other set? Was there a 71 there already? I'm not entirely sure, but I'm presuming. So I'll give you a round of applause for that. I'll take that. We've gathered a little bit of attention that some people claim that we've gone higher than 71 already, but I'll wait until the call comes through. Ben's in Winchester. Ben, question or answer? Hi there, James. It's actually an answer for you. Carry on. Sorry, mate, I hate to tell you, but you were actually wrong on the whole weekend thing. It's good for me. It's good for me to be wrong. As long as we're not talking about Brexit when it hasn't happened yet. Carry on, Ben. So it was actually Henry Ford when he created the whole production line. He also created the five day working week. People used to work six, seven days before that, but on the 7th day, God rested. He did. But, I mean, it's only one day, isn't it? It says the Sabbath is only one day. Exactly. So in terms of the five, was it really Henry Ford and the production line did a lot of good stuff, Henry Ford, didn't he? He did. And he also created the five day working week. Qualifications? None. I read it somewhere. That's the best qualification of all, Ben, isn't it? Excellent. Excellent. I've run out of calls and I've. I've got two minutes left. You. You all right, mate? You well? Yeah, yeah. Not bad. Not bad. I could have two minutes of applause. That'd be quite nice. I'd be silly. I mean, you know, I don't. Don't give them two minutes of applause. Seriously. We got. I mean, what's going on in Winchester at the moment? Anything? No, not much. Lots of construction and lots of pretty miserable weather. Got plans for lunch, Ben? No plans for lunch, but afternoon meetings. Afternoon meetings. Good ones, bad ones, you know. Do you need any help? Any advice? If you can advise me on some spine surgery, that'd be great. Spine surgery? I tell you what, mate, I'm cocky, but I'm not that cocky. I hope it all goes well. I really do. James. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much. And that's a great answer. I didn't know that, because I do know that Boxing Day is called Boxing Day because it was pretty much the one day of the year that some domestic staff would get off. But the idea of that five day working week having been because it wouldn't have been around in the industrial revolution, I think I owe the fellow who asked the original question a minor apology. And now, of course, I've got a full switchboard because everyone's rung in at the last minute when they've realised that there's no time left and. And no one's going to get put through. We're going to get put through. Could we put Gavin on? Gavin looks all right. He seems solid. Give Gavin a shout. No. Zero. 345-606-0973 we're not putting. Yeah, here we go. Gavin, mate, no pressure. Question or answer. Was Gavin from Bonn? End. I wasn't asked because there's no. No time, was there? No, it's you. It's you. You're here. You're on now. Don't blow it. Quick, go. Great. So the reason that you're. You go puffy. When you're deep in sleep, your body regenerates and cleans out a lot of toxins while you're sleeping. So the deeper your sleep, more toxins you'll release. And just below your eyes and they go puffy because that's where your body releases a lot of toxins down the bottom of your feet. Lymph. Lymph nodes at all? Anyone? Well, could well be, if you wanted to call out. I don't know, I'm no expert, I just do it myself. I do a lot of Epsom salt bars and stuff and I get a lot of. A lot of men in your eyes. You know that little bit of grit you get sometimes? Yeah. That comes out a lot more the next morning after a good night's sleep. There you go, that'll do nicely. Round of applause. Thank you very much. I'm going to squeeze in one more really quickly. Michael's in. Elton. Michael, question or answer? Afternoon, James. Answer, please. Quickly, Michael. Yeah. So your body's reaction to something being in your nose is sneezing. It's trying to reject that from the nose, such as back bacteria, bits of dirt. When that's no longer in the nose, no lead, no longer need the reaction to sneeze. Therefore the absence and the sneerly happens, you get. You do a sneerly when the thing that was, the thing that was aggravating your nasal membrane has stopped aggravating. So I got it right. I got that right, mate. What are your qualifications? That'll do nicely. Well played. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James from three today, what blessing. Excuse me. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.