Where was world's first ever embassy?

Leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is four minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. So, I mean, pretty much textbook, really, that Donald Trump intervention in NATO. He came to NATO, he created a crisis, he claimed that he'd fixed it, and then he laid the basis for an ongoing set of mutually contradictory commitments and misunderstandings, just as he did in North Korea, effectively, although that that particular press conference was peppered with more untruths, even by Donald Trump's standards, claiming that Ronald Reagan didn't win Wisconsin, he won it twice. And then, amazingly, claiming effectively, that Barack Obama should have stopped Vladimir Putin from annexing Crimea. An annexation, of course, that was undertaken using military force. So presumably he thinks that America should have gone to war with Russia when Vladimir Putin annexed Crimea, but he declined the opportunity to condemn the annexation of Crimea. They explained that America would never recognize it. Oh, and he lied about being opposed to the Iraq war as well. Apart from that crazy speech, let's get mystery hour underway because he was under very strict instructions to get that press conference completed by twelve noon. Mister Yau very, very, very rarely gets postponed. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. My thanks to Michelle, who has paid me what any british broadcaster would probably consider to be the finest compliment that any british broadcaster can ever be paid. She says your commentary over Trump's speech is the political version of Terry Wogan's interventions at the Eurovision Song Contest. Michelle, even if I hadn't finished my book last night, I would be going home particularly happy today as a result of those kind words. Right, Sandra and Harry are on the phones today and neither of them have presided over many mystery hours. So I'm glancing at the screen and I'm feeling that repetition may be one of the themes that emerges in the course of today's program. But to be honest with you, when we started doing mystery hour, we had about 280,000 listeners and now we've got a million. So there'd be loads of people that haven't heard the stuff that might possibly fall foul of our repetition law. If you don't know what mystery hour is, you're in for a treat. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And the way it works, of course, is this. You ring in with a question and someone else will hear it and come back with the answer. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Should we just crack on rather than do the explanation. Don't be boring. If Harry and Sandra give the impression that your question is not one that James is going to want to answer or put on the show, then just politely move along, don't start fights. And if you hear me say the number, that means those phone lines are free. That's always the case, by the way, on my programme, if you hear me say the number, it means those phone lines are free. It's, in my experience, the most reliable way of ensuring that you don't speak to the same three people every day, but you have a constant churn of new and informed listeners who are under no doubt whatsoever about how easy it is to get in touch with the programme. Grant in Sandhurst. Grant, question or answer? I've got a question, please, James. Yeah, the question is, it's just where the saying comes from. As happy as Larry, it's almost impossible that we haven't done this before. This isn't your fault, Grant. I'm just doing a little bit of. I'm doing a little bit of man management live on the radio without actually pointing out that I'm doing man. If it is a phrase that is an incredibly common parlance, then it's highly likely that that mistry hour has done it before. There is, of course, an archive at LBC dot co dot UK where you could have checked. Not you. I'm not talking to you, Grant. I'm doing man management while pretending that I'm doing normal broadcasting. This is a bit like Gareth Southgate, you know, just talking to the team through the media. And the point is, of course, I can't remember what the answer is, so I'm going to have to let the question on the board. You want to know who Larry was? Yeah. Why is it happy as Larry? I mean, I've got a couple of them, but we'll just leave. We'll just leave that one. Larry Grayson was always very cheerful on the telly when we were growing up. But I think that the phrase was already in common parlance before Larry Grayson got the generation game gig, don't you? I think so. Right, we shall find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. We only do one of those. You can't. No more origins. All right. Is everyone paying attention? So we don't know anymore. Where does that phrase come from? We only do one of those a week. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Johnny is in Richmond. Question or answer, Johnny? Question, mate. Go on. Why do. Why are some beaches Sandy and some stony what would happen if you got a stone and you had a magic hammer that you could smash it to smithereens? What would it turn into? Yeah, I thought that, but. Yeah, I thought that as well. I've got a horrible feeling that's not the right answer. Sorry, go on. What? Why some. Why is it, like, not mixed? You go to one beach and they're all stones and you go down a little bit and they're all sand. It means always in sections. Yeah. Well, is it? You know what? I came on air this morning at 10:00 poised to talk about the new world order, and I reminded people listening that the most important three words in the english language some mornings are. I don't know. And yet I've got an almost. I've got an almost pathological inability to say I don't know during mystery hour. I don't know why that is, Johnny. I might need help. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'll try and find out for you, Johnny, all right? Very much, mate. Fine line went a bit funny there. Jason is in Pimlico. Question or answer? Jason. Hi, James. Hello, Jason. Big word of the week, by the way. What a strange phone line this is. It actually feels like you're standing behind me. Stop. That was spooky. Don't do that. Laugh again, mate. That went down my spine. Go on, what have we got? James? First of all, what's your big word of the week? I can't remember now. I've been busy writing. My brain is mush. Okay, what is it? I know, I'm. Oh, you don't know where I. Spelunka? Actually, no. You've done that before. Have I? Yeah, yeah, you've got me on the hob. You have to buy the book. You have to buy the book, Jason. It's full of words. That's going to be one of the quotes on the front. Excellent. What can I do you for? So why is it that when we go abroad we get a very different and much deeper and crisper and goldener, golden word pan than we do here in the UK? Because it's hotter. No. So it's not that because you're in the sun more, you prune. What? When you're on holiday, you're in the sun more. When you're here, you're not. No. The type of the quality. No way. There's no way you get a different quality. Of course it. Course there is. Absolutely. Everybody that's wandering around now with british tans will look very different when they go abroad to Spain. And with it. Okay, so with the same exposure to the same amount of sun, you think we'd go a different color? Absolutely. I'm a tested example of that. I mean. But, I mean, I'm shy now because I was about to start mocking you, but sometimes when I mock people on mystery out, ten minutes later, it emerges that I'm the one who's made an idiot of myself. Exactly. I know, I know, I know. Spelunker is the word of the week. I know, I've had it before, but. No, but it's in the news this week. It's in the news. It's in the news. This. That one before. Yeah, yeah, I am. I mean, I don't think it's true, but I'm not going to mock you or patronize you in case I end up making an idiot of myself again. Fabulous. All right, so, I mean, I have to be the. Why can't it just be the do? What do you mean? What can we just do? Do you go a different color? No. No. Why? No, no. It's all about the why. All right. Definitely. All right. Much deeper. Much. It's lovely. People come back from holiday. Yeah, but that's because they've been on the beach all the time. Whereas when they go brown in this country, it's not. All right. Speak soon. See ya. Ariadne's been in touch. Say, I was just nodding off as that Donald Trump press conference was unfolding and I woke up to discover it was actually real. Did James really say, here comes his sale pitch, or did I dream that bit? In the dream, I fell asleep and had to be carried out of the press conference. No, he really did. I told you he would and he did. Stephen is in Crawley. Stephen, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Do you. Before we do that, yes. What did you think of the last question? Just between you and me, what a load of. Yeah, carry on, mate. What's your. Yeah, all right. We'll see. We'll see about that. Tanning a different color in different countries. Honestly, what can I do you for? When does a pond become a lake? When does a puddle become a pond? Exactly. I do like. When does a lake become an inland sea? Yeah. Does an inland sea not have to be salt water? That's a very good point. I'll let you have that one. I don't know. What's the difference? My puddle and ponds, puddle to pond. When does a pond become a lake is a pond. Is a lake naturally occurring? And a pond is. Well, the only thing I could dug out a lake is fed by a river. But a pond might not be. Yeah, there you go. But that's not definition, that's just me trying to be smart. Yeah, well, what if it turns out that you are? Then you can give me a post dated round of applause. All right. I see what I can do. What was that little ping in the background? Is that someone saying, is that you on LBC, mate? Probably someone on my. Yeah, probably my wife saying. You're not trying to get on there again? Everybody needs a hobby. What's the difference between a pond and a lake? When does a pond become a lake? Do we go different colours in different countries? Why are some beaches Sandy and some beaches stony and the origin of the phrase happy as Larry? There's a couple of questions there that I think you'll be able to answer by citing as your qualifications that you listened to mystery out before. John's in Canterbury. John, question or answer? It's a question, unfortunately. James. Best day of the week, by the way. You're not kidding. You're not kidding. Although I quite enjoyed doing the commentary on that. On that press conference. I wish you'd do one every week. What a load of gold. Don't be so outrageous. Off with your head. Listen, if you go to court, it's the crown versus someone. Correct me, at Queen's counsellors. What would happen if the queen committed a crime? Who'd prosecute her? That's a very good question. She can't prosecute herself, could she? Can the queen be prosecuted again? I mean, it does ring a little bell, but if I can't remember the answer, I suspect we. I honestly don't know. And it's something that does puzzle me. Well, what's she done? What's she done? John, you got a scoop for us? I'll alert the news desk. John and Canterbury, our top snout. Our top snout. The queen's been out, I think, fair dodging on that train to King's Lynn. That's what she's been doing. She's been dodging her and Philip. Yeah, Philip got up on the luggage rack and the queen hid in the loo. I want should be bang to rights. But you're right, it's the crown versus. So can it be the crown versus the crown? It's a queen's counselor. It's a queen's counsel. Crown versus the. I love that. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. What a lovely question. Can, can the crown prosecute the crown or sort of agents of the crown? Ed's in Plymouth, but we'll come to you first after this, Ed, because I'm bang up. I'm going to hit this break only 45 seconds later. It's almost a record for me. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. This isn't actually mystery hour, but does anyone know what page of the times the Legoland vouchers are on? I've just. I've been through it about three times now. I can't find the flipping Legoland vouchers. I can't go home until I find them. If you could just text me that. I nearly gave you my phone number. Then just. Just tweet it or text it to 84850. Consider it a little bit of payback for all the hard work I do on your behalf every day. 90 minutes after twelve is a time mystery hour is underway. Questions that still need answers include origin of the phrase happy as Larry. Sandy beaches versus stony beaches. Do you tan? Why do you tan differently on holiday, if indeed you do? Difference in a pond and a lake. And can the queen be prosecuted for crimes given that it would involve the crown versus the crown? Ed Zim, Plymouth. Ed. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, and I have to say, I'm sorry, I don't have my copy of the Times today yet. I do. I do have my copy, the Times. I can't find the flipping voucher. So to be honest with you, it's not necessarily true to suggest that if you had your copy of the Times with you, you'd be able to tell me what page it was on. Well, is your answer long and complicated? Somewhat. All right, well, you crack on and I'm going to flick through the paper again, looking for these Legoland vouchers. All right? Okay. Good to know you're listening. I am. I can do both. You know, I'm not a typical male. Carry on. So it's an answer on the sandy and pebble beaches question. So it's dependent on quite a few factors, but two of the most important factors are the strength or the power in the waves and the profile of the beach. So if you have a high energy waves, which can be caused by a. By a large drop of water, by a large depth of water just to the edge of the beach and a very steep profile beach, then you're going to. Then you'll get, for example, more likely to be Pebble beach, because there's less force spread over the entirety of the beach. Whereas if you've got a more flat profile beach with high energy waves, then you're going to get the energy of the waves spread across the beach. So, as you said with the hammer, it is kind of in the right ballpark in the sense, but it's not a matter of time because I always thought eventually every stony beach will become a sandy beach because it's a matter of time. But in fact, what you're telling us is that every beach would be a sandy beach if it had the right quality of waves? Theoretically, yes. I don't know enough about it to say that 100% you could do that. But in general terms, yes, if you've got a very, very steep beach, it's more likely to be a pebble beach, and if you've got a beach with a flat profile, it's more likely to be a sandy beach. Do you want the good news or the bad news? What's that? Oh, you've got to choose. Good news or bad news. I assume the good news is you found the vouchers. No, that's the bad news. I haven't found the vouchers. The good news is you got yourself a round of applause. Oh, hang on. Qualifications? I'm studying civil and coastal engineering. Coastal engineering. Get in. Well done. If you do find those vouchers, give me a shout. Andy's in Milton Keynes. Andy, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Andy. The queen. No, she can't be prosecuted because she's the prosecuting authority and in effect she is above the law. What if she murdered someone? Can't do anything. Well, yeah, so, I mean, hang on, what your qualification? I've got a lord agreeing 17 and a half years in the place. I mean, I presume that the queen probably wouldn't want to murder anybody. So imagine a couple of kind of. Some of her in laws on occasion, of course, a great upset, but we don't want to make light of that kind of thing. If she genuinely. If she committed a crime, what would. I mean, I mean, I would imagine she could probably get someone to do it for her if she really wanted. No, but if she did it herself, like bang to. Right, so she really could stand on. On national television and commit a crime and there'd be nothing we could do about it? As far as I'm aware. Yes, that's what I understand. From what I learned out of all of them, which one do you think is most likely to be committing crimes on a regular basis? Of the royal family? Yeah, it's probably. I'd best not say. Yeah, I just think about libel law then. I'm getting a bit distracted by the, by the. Trying to find these flipping vouchers in the times. I'll put that away now. I'm being very unprofessional. He's got a law degree. 17 years in the police. The queen cannot be prosecuted for committing a crime. Yep. What about. Hang on, how did they. Charles the first got his head chopped off. How did that happen then? Well, I think we had it. We had a civil war over that, didn't we? So. Yeah, but still, I mean, he got, he must have got prosecuted before he got his head chopped off. Uh, yeah, that's. That is true. Um, but, uh, as I said, I think he was, uh. Might be slightly. They were making up new laws then? Slightly exceptional circumstances. Yeah. Round of applause for Andy. Collect today's code inside booking. Maybe they're not vouchers, it's just a code. Uh, John's in. Cancel rights. John, question or answer? It's the question, James. Carry on. Is it? No, sorry, it's an answer. I've got a question, but I'm going for the answer today because I know I'm right. That's a great start. That's a great start. That fills me with faith that your question is going to be academic and comprehensive. Questioner, answer. Oh, that's a tricky one, James. Questioner, answer, the answer to the pond or the lake? What is the difference between a pond and. I'm laughing. I'm trying to be serious. I know. I'm sorry, mate. Story of my life, honestly, carry on. A pond is made where a spring comes up and a lake is a body of water that's fed by a river or a stream. Oh, so it's got nothing to do with size? No, not really. I mean, we'd probably, as far as I know, your answer is strong. We would probably call a very, very big pond a lake, but technically it would still remain a pond even if we called it a lake. Uh, maybe. Well, clearly. Well, I'll take your word for it, then. Qualifications? I'm a fisherman. Oh. I mean, that doesn't necessarily explain that you can go definitive by dint of fishing. Well, I'll fish in quite a few ponds and lakes. And where do you go? Where's the nearest place from Kensal, rising apart from the canal? Uh, well, it is Hyde park. You can fish up there. You go and fishing this open time? I used to when I was younger. But you can't park anywhere. Near there. Carry your gear. No, that's true. Par hill fields, the Hampstead puns. But you can't park. You're not a river fisher then. You don't like fishing rivers? Oh, yeah. Good, because you should come up my way. Come up to Chiswick. There's some lovely fishing to be had on the Thames up there. We saw a competition the other week, and when it's really narrow, John, when the river, we know when the tide's out, the river is really, really narrow. Am I right in thinking that that's the best time to go fishing because there'll be the same number of fish in much less water? Or am I stupid? Well, I don't think you're stupid. Well, I'd never say you were stupid. Yeah, but I think it. But I'd never say it part, because I saw a fishing competition a couple of summers ago, and they were pulling fish out of the river like it was going out of fashion. But the river was tiny. It was one of those days when the tide was so far out you could almost have walked from, from Chiswick to Barnes. I don't think it makes much difference whether the tide's low or high, but not far from you, that little stream or small river that runs behind the hospital over by Brentford. Yes. You just stand there and watch the fish. It's unbelievable. Some amazing fish is, isn't, it's the river Brent, I think, isn't it? I'm not sure that's the river Brent. It's in Brentford. Yeah, maybe I never thought of that, but I'm going to give you a round of applause and I'm also going to thank you for being so gentle with me, John, 27. After twelve Tuesdays in France. Do they call you Mardi? Oh, that's such a weak. No, no. You've heard no, sorry, question or answer Tuesday. I don't have six brothers and sisters either. Exactly that. A name like yours is a blessing and a curse, because every, every kind of dad joker like me thinks he's going to be the first person to make the joke. Whereas in fact, you've heard every single joke 6 million times, haven't you? Yes, and I love them. Oh, good. Question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Yes. Why do people stick their tongue out when they're concentrating? It's focus, isn't it? But you want a proper answer. I want a proper answer. I don't think you do. You're not going to make it because I knew that once. But as I get older, my memory is falling to pieces because I do it. Kids do it. Everybody does it when they're concentrating. Yeah. When you're putting a mascara on or threading a needle or something like that. Oh, God. Yeah. Trying to do flat packing sometimes involves the old tongue out concentration technique. It focuses your mind, but. And it stops you from shaking. But I can't. I can't get it. All right, you're on. I'll get you an answer if it kills me. Tuesday, how's France today, please? Oh, it's 32 degrees. It's gorgeous. Glorious. Marvelous. Fame is your weather, though. Yeah? We got no complaints here. Not about the weather. Everything else is falling to pieces. 28 minutes after twelve is the time Joe's in Hayward Heath. Question or answer, Joe. It's a question, James. Carry on, Joe. When we sneeze, why do we say or what? Do we shout or holler at you? Well, we don't, mate. Do we not? No, just mate. I mean, that is like an onomatopoeia, isn't it? It's the word that describes the noise that we make. But the noise came before the word. Who first thought it. The attu could just shout if someone sneezed and someone tried to write down or repeat the sneezing noise and they just said at you. It's a bit like cockadoodle do in France, as Tuesday would have told us if I kept her on the line. They don't say cock a doodle do, they say cockari. Cockari co. It's the same thing. It's just what it sounds like. Someone wrote it down, so. We don't. We don't. I mean, you couldn't make a different noise unless you really try to. The natural noise you make when you sneeze is someone just wrote it down as at you. That's it. Okay, I believe you. Well, it is. I feel bad now. I mean, you were expecting something a bit sexier, perhaps. Well, there's nothing sexy about sneezing, is there, really? Yeah. Well, that's where you're wrong, because if you do seven sneezes in a row, it's the equivalent of an orgasm. At least that's what. That's what we all told each other at prep school. In retrospect, that may not have been entirely true. It might have been filed under. Yeah, it's. If you swallow your chewing gum, it'll stick to your heart and you'll be dead by tea time. Round of applause for me. Thank you, Joe. 12:30 is the time. Harley Jones is here now with the headlines. Donald, it's 26 minutes to one and just checking some breaking news for you. Coming in from the Associated Press at 19 after twelve. So Trump stopped speaking at about, what, 1155, just before mystery house started. It took just under half an hour for the french president, Emmanuel Macron, to publicly deny Donald Trump's claim that NATO powers had agreed to increase defense spending beyond previous targets. Those previous targets, of course, were negotiated and agreed to by NATO and Barack Obama and John Kerry. Here's John Kerry on this issue before Donald Trump's ludicrous speech. Defence spending by our allies needs to and is being increased each year. Nations have been increasing their contribution even as they have taken a hit to their own economies by putting in place tough sanctions against Russia for its behaviour in Ukraine. President Obama and I worked hard, using effective diplomacy, not bombast and demagoguery, to secure those sanctions in the first place. And Donald Trump, subsequently using bombast and demagoguery, described precisely the agreements that Barack Obama had negotiated and claimed them for himself. Just in case you thought perhaps I was exaggerating while I provided you with live fact checking of his press conference. Where are we? Down the sands? One John in Kensal. Rise, mate. You've kicked things right off a lot. A lot of complaints about your definition of a pond as opposed to a lake. But I'm not going to withdraw your round of applause because you made me chuckle. Gareth is in chess. And Gareth, question or answer? Question, please, James. First of all, can we have a length? I want to hear about live commentary, because I missed it on the radio and I'd love to hear it anyway. I'll have a word with the Internet department, which, I don't know, maybe it wasn't that good. Well, actually, it was, but carry on. Well, people were raving about it on Twitter and I missed it. They're very kind. They're very kind. So, in it with a political slant. I wanted to ask embassies where. Where was the. Where and when was the first embassy? The idea you could have, you know, I bet it was us. I bet it was british. Well, I thought that, but I just wondered where the very first embassy, where you kind of had a representative in Inuka of your own. Yeah, I love that. Where was the first embassy? That's a lovely question. Yeah, I visited, because I visited quite a lot. And when you go to a british embassy, there's always the three pin plug and no matter where you are in the world. Is that right? Yes. I've been like Sophia. I've been to one in Belgium. And they've all got three pin plugs. And why have you been getting into, um. Have you been getting quite a lot of trouble? Oh, you're. So. You perform in the embassies? Yes. What's your thing? I'm a flute player. Ah. Flautist. I blow down tubes for a living. It could be worse. I just sort of blow hot air for a living. So at least yours may have a useful hot air. We need your hot air, James. Sure. I'm sure your. Your tube blowing is very useful as well. So I'd like. Yeah, the first. What's the coolest one you've been to? Um. I mean, Sophia was nice. Was it? I went to the ambassador's residence in Nairobi as well. That was beautiful. Very nice. I did like Nairobi. Perfect temperature. No one's got heating, no one's got air conditioning. Is that right? It just sort of sits in a lovely ambient position on the equator, but high enough not to be too hot. Did you go a different color there than you do when you sunbathe in Brighton? I don't. I don't. I stay out of the sun. I'm irish. You and me both, mate. Just grow a few extra freckles during heat waves. As good as it gets. Because that's another question on the board and we should add it to yours. So when was the first embassy? We've done the sandy beaches. Origin of the phrase happy as Larry. Do you go a different colour depending on where you. While we've done the pond in the lake, we've done the queen can't get prosecuted. I nailed the sneeze question. And why do you stick your tongue out when you are concentrating? George is in Swanborough. Question or answer? Hello. It's a question. Carry on, George. Why do you humans learn in threes? How do you mean? Well, stories, lesson plans, speeches, it all seems to have a countenance of three. So, you know, beginning, middle, end or point, point, point. It seems that we respond. Beginning, middle, end is self explanatory, isn't it? But it's. Why. But I don't understand the other three. Well, you. I don't learn in threes, do I? Well, yes. I don't know quite well, that's like the question. I don't quite why it is, but I don't know the premise of. I don't understand the premise of the question. Are you sure we learn in threes? I mean, do I? Don't. Yeah. Something I've heard and something my boss has heard as well. We've been discussing this. All right. It seems to be a habit of grouping ideas in threes. There is a. You know the rules of rhetoric. When the ancient Greeks gave name to all the little devices that people used in public speaking. I think one of. I always get. I can never remember what they are. Lycertes or something like that. I think one of them says, you do something, you do a three. There's a three to that. But that's more of a rhetorical device than an actual mode of learning. But I'll put it on the board. Why do we learn in threes? And possibly someone who's a bit cleverer than me will both understand and answer the question in full. Is that all right? Thank you very much. Yeah. What's your boss's name? Grant. Is it going to get you brownie points if I give Grant a shout? Yeah, all right, Grant, give him a pay rise. He sounds like a lovely young man. It's 1239. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Paves is in Birmingham. Parvez, what have you got? Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Whereabouts in Birmingham are you? Castlevale. Castle Bromwich. I don't know that part of Birmingham very well, but carry on nonetheless. My attempt at small talk has failed horribly. No worries. Skin color is produced by the amount of melanin, the skin pigment in your skin. Yeah. There are slightly different shades of this pigment that you produce and your skin color is dictated by the amount of melanin and the amount of cells that produce that. The first reaction that happens when you increase the amount of uv light that you get when you go somewhere sunny is you actually oxidize melanin. So that gives you a sort of an instant dark color. So the end of a day of sunbathing, you will go a slightly darker color because you've oxidized melanin. But you. Hang on. Would you, surely, if it was really, really. If it was the same temperature here, you wouldn't go a different color. The thing is, by and large, when. When anyone goes on holiday somewhere, when we get sun there, we left England, which hasn't been particularly sunny. Well, that. This was my theory. But he was adamant, adamant that if he did exactly the same amount of sunbathing in exactly the same heat in two different countries, he'd go a different colour in the foreign country. He'd go browner in the foreign country than he would here. He talked of british tans. I have to admit, whenever I've been abroad, the sunshine I've had abroad has been very different to the sunshine here, which is why the tan would be very different from the sunshine. Also, perhaps proximity to the equator. Would that. Would that play a role in how much uv light was reached? It is all about the uv light. You will get different amounts of uv light that are going to then trigger a different reaction. So the closer you are to the equator, the browner you will go. Pass on that one. I don't know. I think it was a silly white anyway. I'm not sure. It was a silly question, wasn't it? I don't know, because I know I've gone different colors when I've been abroad because it's not about heat, it's about light. Incorrigible FCA has been in touch. The atmosphere is thinner the closer you get to the equator, which means that more uv light will pass through it, which means the melanin response will be greater. Yeah. Qualifications? Doctor. Doctor? Yeah. What sort of doctor? An anaesthetist. Yes. Cool. Proper Doctor. I, uh. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Doctor Parvaz, but you're gonna have to give a little bit of it to incorrigible FCA, one of my Twitter stalkers. All right? Exactly. Thank you. Thank you. Malcolm is in. Yeah, good point, Gary. It's as easy as ABC 123 learning in threes. Maybe it was a better question than I gave it credit for. Malcolm's in Kendall in Cumbria, a lovely part of the world. Hang on, hang on. Malcolm, before you weighed in with your question, did you know that Umbongo was invented in Cumbria? Well, I've heard you use it during the week. I've been looking up here. I don't just talk about stuff on the radio. I do hours and hours of research, you know. And when I googled Umbongo, I read that it had been first formulated in Cumbria. Well, there you go. Have a round of applause for that. Thank you very much. I'll put it in the fridge and have it later. Now, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, carry on. I've been suffering badly with hay fever this year. Oh, slave. Because of the sun, obviously. Yes. My question is, do animals get hay fever? The answer is yes. Do they? Yes. Oh, well. But they might not sneeze. But we've done this recently. I think this has come up already this summer. But I've got a rotating. I'm a bit like the. I'm not like Gary Southgate at the moment. I've got rotating staff. I'm not putting the same team out for four matches running. And I'm pretty sure that this came up about a month ago. And the answer is yes. Dogs and cats. People rang in. They had dogs that had hay fever. What about the sheep and cows? Well, I can't. I mean, I can't now go through every animal on the ark with you, Malcolm. Well, no, I wasn't particularly asking for every. You kind of were because I said, yes, animals can get hay fever. And then I specified dogs and cats. And then you sought to go a bit farmyard cow. You put a blanket across from. I was wondering whether it be any specific ones. The mammals. They're not an animal. Yeah, they are. No, no, it's a mammal. Yeah, mammals are animals. You sure? Yeah, of course I'm sure. Qualifications, mate. I went to school. Not according to what you say. Generally, I can tell you that cats. Cats and dogs definitely get hay fever and therefore I've answered your question. Do animals get hay fever? The more you narrow it down to specific animals, the less confident I will be. Right. Okay. Okay. All right. So round of applause for me. Thank you. I should stress that I was speaking in jest and affection when I described incorrigible FCA as a stalker. He's actually a crucial part of the program team. He may even get an acknowledgement in my. In my. I must mention. Did I mention that I'm writing a book at the moment? Gemma is in New York. Hello, Gemma. Question or answer? Hello. It's an answer. I should have gone to the break. I'm late for the break. But I thought if you're in New York. No. Well, you're in super quick. You're in New York, though. New York. I listen to you every morning, James. You're my morning. Thank you. So you keep your. When you. When you're concentrating, your tongue goes out of your mouth because you want to keep your head as rigid as possible so that you're minimizing movement. And that's why I like, you know who did it. Michael Jordan used to do it all the time when he was concentrating. Is that right? So your head stops. I said, it's something to do with concentration, focus and not shaking. But you've nailed it. You have to keep your head upright because then your vision stays solid and your concentration improves. It's a bit more complicated than that as well. Your brain is sort of like. Is mapped to your tongue and it's like a mental map that makes the shape of your mouth. And so it's like a huge amount of data that your brain is constantly dealing with. And when you're. When you cut down on that movement, then you can increase the concentration. Very, very, very good answer. Qualifications? Speech and language therapist. Are you at work at the moment? No, I'm not. I'm with my own children. It's the morning. It's only 745 here. Oh, blimey, they sound alive. 746, because you're late for the news. You're right, we are late for the news. And Gemma, round of applause for Gemma. What a lovely answer. Oh, great stuff. Remind me to give Gemma a quick shout every now and then. I like the idea of people getting up in New York and listening to the programs. 1246 is the time on LBC with yesterday tv channel. Fuel your mind and get closer to the people, the stories and the facts. 1249 is the time. The new Brexit secretary, Dominic Raab, is on his feet in the House of Commons sharing the details of the white paper that has now been placed in both libraries, the Lords and the Commons. Theo Usher had a sneak preview of it and will be talking through its contents with you and Sheila Fogarty shortly after 01:00 today. I mean, I appreciate that very few people care anymore, but the biggest story yesterday for me involved reports that mandarins are not the food stockpiling story that you'll remember. The sun journalist who wrote it tried to claim it was evidence of how much the government cares about all the people who work in the food processing industry. My favorite story yesterday was the one about mandarins preparing to bring loads of generators back from Afghanistan and places like that and to put them on kind of rigs in the middle of the sea so that they can keep the lights on in Northern Ireland if the supply of the necessary fuels dries up, because we won't have any contracts or customs arrangements in place at the end of March next year. But, hey, blue passports. Jacob Rismore, doff cap tug fallop. Back to mystery our gills in Beckenham Gill. Question or answer? An answer? Carry on, Jill. It's about the embassies. Oh, yes, it was. The first embassies were in the 13th century, in northern Italy in particular. Milan was the first one. They were the first british embassy. Sorry? The first british embassy. Oh, the first british embassy. No, any embassy. But who was it an embassy for? If it was in Milan before? Yeah, so I'm asking. It was city states sending and having embassies with each other. We don't know what the actual very first one was. Or do we? You seem to be. You seem to be the channel through which somebody else's wisdom is passing. Jill? Well, my husband used to be an ambassador and I'm asking him because my qualification is that he told me, he says that before. Before the 13th century, in greek and roman times, people used to say countries used to and states used to send representatives, but they didn't actually have an embassy as such. He said Milan was one of the first. I shall give you a round of applause simply for the calibre of your qualifications. But in terms of the very first embassy ever to be opened, I may leave the door open. Can I ask, and I hope I'm not being undiplomatic, Jill, can I ask what your favourite posting was? Sydney, Australia, for four years. Are you serious? Yeah. But then we did six years in Moscow and three years in Northern Ireland, so we paid for it. You had your work cut out. I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta, which is the highest award I can give on the program, simply because we have a question about embassies and I have a former ambassador and his wife at the other end of the phone line. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Is he happy? Are you happy? I just turned the radio up a fraction so that he can hear it. You got a Rayleigh otter. You can hear. You can play it back on the app. This is more important because presumably he's got an OBe or something like that as well. Has he? He's got a CNG. Yeah, but, I mean, he's got a. He's got a Ray Liotta on mystery, haven't I, Jill? That's even better. That's even better. I'm so thrilled. This is one of the best ever. Thank you, Jill. And thank you, your excellency. 1250. 312 53 is the time. 034-560-6097 so give them a quick round of applause as well, just in case you've got the radio on loud enough. I love this program. I can't believe they pay me Knowles in Harrow. No. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. No, sorry, James, I'm a bit star struck, speaking to you. Boxing, right? And it's called Pavlov's count. So if you go one, two, three. Yeah. If I throw three punches, by the time I throw the third one, you tuned into my timing and I'll never get you. Is that right? And also in guitar, that, you know, you've got a few people trying to learn guitar, so when you start a song, you go, a one, a two, a three by three. You all tuned in. Oh, I like it. And you know what? I didn't look on Google memory. No, you're not allowed to look on Google. I always forget to tell. Play by the rules. No, play by. Play by the rules. So, qualifications? You learnt it in boxing. Boxing. And a terrible guitar player. Pavlov's count. That's a. That's a quality answer. A bit of boxing. Bit. Stop it. I'll get around to applause. You do. You're gonna get a round of applause. I like it. It's called Pavlov's count. And it becomes in threes, because it just is something to do the way our brain is. But if I go one. So if I throw you a jab, then across. By the time I throw the third one, you tuned in. If I get there. Yeah. So it's. That's it, James, you sound like a good boxer. You'd be surprised. No, you'd be surprised. I'm not surprised, coming from you, James. I'm not gone. You know what I say about you, Jake? Long live the king. James O'Brien. Do I get around? Get around quickly. Give him a round of applause before. Before the mask slips. And it turns out he's been taking a mickey out of it. Mind how you go, Nol Paul's in Swansea. Paul. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Paul. It's happy as Larry. Oh, yeah? Yeah. It comes from a guy called Lawrence, Larry Foley. He was an australian boxer. Oh, you're joking. We should have kept Noel on the line. He was a boxer as well? Yeah, go on. And he lived in Sydney? Yeah, he was in there. He's in the gang in Sydney called the rocks pushers. Strong play. Do you know that the. You know, the former ambassador to Sydney and his wife Jill are very good friends of mine. Yeah. Just listen to them. God, he's in a gang. Did some boxing. Won a prize. Happy as Larry. He was happy as Larry. Love it. That'll do nicely. I think he won $150,000. Yeah, he was. He was the father. Australian boxing. And it was a news headline. It was a headline. Because this has come up on mystery out before. I've suddenly remembered, okay, and there was a headline that said, happy as Larry after he won $150,000 australian bucks. That's right. Love it. You've done well there, mate. About the 1890s, wasn't it? Yeah, I think. Yeah. Yeah. He died in, like, 1917. Just for the end of the war. Qualifications? Paul I used to live in Sydney and it's. You just picked it. I mean, you know, so did Jill, but I don't know if she knew the origin of the phrase happy as Larry. I walked past this house and there was a plaque on the wall. So I read the plaque. Oh, lovely. Big folks. Happy as Larry. A round of applause for Paul. Great work. Marks in Enfield. Mark, question or answer? I've got a question, please, James. We'll be lucky. Unless Sheila Fogarty knows the answer. We will probably have to come back to it on another occasion. But she's not. Okay. She's quite clever. She might know. I can imagine. I can imagine. She is. Okay. Question is, what was the first movie sequel. First recognized movie sequel. That's strong. That's a great pub quiz question as well. It is, yeah, it could be. Yeah, isn't it? I'm thinking Amityville horror or anything like yours. There must have been some before the seventies, I'm assuming. Yeah. You can talk to high society, follow on from Philadelphia. Story. Was that a sequel? Yeah. Same characters? Yeah. Was it? Yeah. Oh, no, it was a remake. It was a sequel? No, I didn't think so. Yeah. A bit tricky. Yeah. Possibly. I don't know. What do you think? Yeah. I was thinking Amityville Horror. I'm just a bit of a guest, to be honest. What year was that, then? Was that eighties or seven? Late seventies, I think. Jaws was before that. Anyone? When was the Godfather? When was the Godfather? Well, you got me there. Star Wars, Empire strikes, but. Oh, I wonder if it would be with James Bond. Films count as sequels? Not really. They're separate movies, aren't they, in a sense? The same characters. Yeah. Different story. They're self contained stories rather than sequels. There's no narrative arc, is there, Mark? Right. So in terms of. Well, that is gonna. I'll tell you what I'll do. It's Thursday today. I might actually keep feeling like it's the weekend. Um. I might come back to that. I might come back to that because we're not gonna get an answer in time. But what a cracking question. What was the first ever movie sequel, that is. Can I give you Richard in Watford? You've got 26 seconds. Question or answer? It's an answer. Go on. With regards to the tanning, do we go a different color in different countries? It depends where it is in relation to the height of the country or the location on the planet. So the amount of uv passing through the atmosphere is contingent upon a few variables, including thickness or thinness of atmosphere. And location of country. So, yes, it is possible that you would tan differently, more strongly but not differently, if you were exposed to the same amount of uv in a different place, you'd go the same color. Yeah. Because you wouldn't get the same amount of uv, for instance, in the south of France as you would in Scarborough because it's further. Nearer to the equator and the earth is nearer to the sun at the equator. Yeah. Just as you can. Altitude. Better ice cream in Scarborough, though, so it swings and roundabouts. Yeah, true. Round of applause for Richard. That's it from me for another day. Thank you for all your lovely words about my Donald Trump commentary. That is, I think, the first time and almost certainly the last that I have genuinely been compared to Terry Wogan, the Don, the king, and here's the queen, Sheila Ferguson. Very kind of you to say. I know.