Why does other people's cooking taste better?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, gosh, is it that time already? Yes, it is. I hear you say mister is upon us. There's a prize. Did you know that? For my favourite contribution of the week. Well, the prize is a mystery our board game. A wonderful mystery, our board game. You can find out more details at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Indeed, you can buy a mystery our board game. Remember, Christmas is coming. I got sent. Oh, I must say thank you to the people that sent me my Christmas pork scratchings Advent calendar. There's another one this year as well. I must get the name of the company right. I'll just double check it because I got it wrong. Last year. There's two advent calendars. There's one with pork scratchings in each door and one with pork scratchings and a can of beer as well. That to me is Christmas pork scratchings and beer. Ho ho ho. So anyway, that's mysteryout dot co dot UK dot. If you want to read the terms and conditions about this competition, then you go to LBC dot co dot UK dot. That didn't sound very professional, did it? I can only apologize. Should we just crack straight on? I'm just tearing up the rules this week. Just woo hoo. So I literally taking calls at seven minutes past eleven, not waiting for the end of the monologue, not even going to tell you what mystery hour is, not going to describe it or remind you of it. I'm just going to dive straight in and do it. Gethin's in Cardiff. Gethin, question or answer? It's a question, please, James, who answers? Pleasure to speak to you today. Go on, what have you. My question is, why does food and drink taste better or why do we think it tastes better when somebody else has prepared it? Now, I was speaking to your producers. I'm wondering if it's because your taste buds are already exposed because of the smells while cooking. Exactly. And the reason I think that is because, say no, I'm batch cooking on a Sunday evening and eat that meal on the Sunday. It never tastes as good as the following day or the day after. Never tastes as good. Yeah, well, that. But no, that can be marinated. That might be for different reasons. That might be very true. That's very true. Although he marinated. No, that this is true. So, I mean, first of all, are we confident that everyone is going to recognize the premise of your question, Gethin? Are they? I mean, is everyone going to go, God, he's right. Yeah, it's always much nicer when someone else cooks it. Christmas. I do Christmas dinner and I'm always slightly disappointed everyone else is sitting around the table singing my praises. And I'm not enjoying it. Exactly that. I'm not enjoying it as much as I was expecting, because I don't know why. I almost feel a bit full before I sit down, even though I haven't eaten anything. Could be that, like I said, even if you're not trying it as you cook it, it still has the same effect. At least for me, I think. Yeah, me too. I mean, let's find out. I mean, if it is possible to find out. So we're agreeing on the premise, are we? Do you. Do you find food is nicer when other people. I'm just checking with my crack team of operatives. Do you find food is nicer when other people. Yeah, we're all fairly in broad agreement on this. And then the question. Then the question becomes why I like it. What were you batch cooking on Sunday? What were you doing? Oh, good question. What I do on Sunday? Oh, it's a pad Thai. Really? Asian food is my favorite. You batch cook that? The noodles? Yeah, of course. They stay all right. No, apart from the noodles. So I always eat the noodles fresh. But noodles very nice. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Why does it taste now? Why would Gethin's pad Thai taste even nicer six minutes after twelve? What did I say? Nine. Oh, so the microphone went weird. Why does Gethin. Why would Gethene's pad thai taste even nicer if someone else had cooked it? 0345, Sam's in Broshov in Romania. Sam, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Carry on. So I'm with you with a Christmas dinner, by the way, when you've cooked it, it's not the same. It's weird, right? Yeah, yeah, there we go. Anyway, my question this came up. You spoke to Ros Atkins two or three weeks back about his new book. That's right. Very good. Yeah. Have you got a new book coming up? I don't like to talk about it, but I've got a book called how they broke Britain. That's out on November 2, actually. Salmon. Fortunately, the book tour itself is now sold out in several cities. But there are some events at the Henley Literary Festival, the Cheltenham Literary Festival, and I've got a couple of events with toppings bookshop up in Scotland, and I'll also be at the hey on Wye winter festival. How kind of you to ask. You're not coming to Brasof you're not coming to. Is there a literary festival in Brasof? There's a Transylvania literary festival. I'll send you a tweet later. Let me know. I don't know if it's that kind of book, but you never know your luck. So, actually, there are some people in it. Nigel Farage gets his own chapter, so that would fit right in in Transylvania. But anyway, where were we? Anyway, so, October 2, you said, what day is that? You know full well. November the second. It is. And it's a Thursday. But it's. You see, I mean, it is a Thursday. Yeah, it is a Thursday. So I have. And you interviewed Ros Atkins. I do. Was out on a Thursday. And I have lots of books all lined up, ready to come out on Thursdays. Yeah, that's right. So I know what your question is going to be. Is there a reason why? Was there a reason why Thursday was the book? They were published. It's just tradition now. Or is there still a valid reason? I think it's because of the charts. Oh, okay. I think that Wednesday night is when you find out if you've made the Sunday Times top ten bestsellers. So that would be seven days, wouldn't it? Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and that. So you get the full seven days to maximize sales in the hope of getting, in the first week, getting yourself into the chart. I think that's the reason. Qualifications. Ask me what my qualifications are, Sam. Go on then, James. What are your qualifications? Best selling author, mate. Sunday Times best selling author. Sunday times bestselling author. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that would make sense, because I remember when. When I was growing up and we only had one. We had one cinema in town with one screen. It was always Thursday when the new films came out as well. Same reason to get it. So to maximize the chance of getting to the top of the charts. And a round of applause for me. Thank you, Sam. Thank you very much for the opportunity of allowing me to break with convention and plug my own volume. Mandy's in Crawley. Mandy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay. A bit of background to this. This came to mind yesterday evening. I went into our back garden and found that a snail was walking, sliding up our back door, slithering. Slithering. Yeah. It's probably a better word, isn't it? And my husband picked it up, took it off the door and lobbed it down the garden. Interesting. And as I was watching it spiraling around, I wondered, do snails get dizzy? What does snail get so you mean like a form of what we would get if we were spinning around correctly? Yeah. It's an odd one, isn't it? Because it would not happen naturally to a snail in the same. A snail. For rather obvious reasons, a snail couldn't decide to spin around quickly in the way that a human can. Absolutely. So who would know the answer to the question of whether or not it would depend on their nervous system? Would it, what causes dizziness and would it apply to a snail? It's not. It's not. It's not the most obviously answerable question we've ever had on the program. Okay. But that's a good thing. I mean, I like questions that aren't obviously answered, but I'm just trying to think who might know. Right. I find out. Did it. Did it come back? Did the snail come back? No, I think he threw it far away now. And did he put a bit of spin on it? Did he put it like a little. Yeah, I thought he might have done a little bit of top spin. Get it right up into the neighbours. Did it go over? Did it clear the fence? Did it land in the neighbours garden? I'm not going to answer. That's a yes. Okay. We shall find out, Mandy, whether or not snails get dizzy or we won't. Who knows? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. It's eleven minutes after twelve. And the company I need to thank for my advent calendars is the snaffling pig company. I called it the snuffling pig. I think last time I thanked. But I can heartily recommend their pork scratchings. They are the delicious. Tell you what else is really nice. And, oh, I must thank Galaxy as well because I mentioned to you how much I was enjoying galaxy biscuits, your galaxy digestives. Like a chocolate biscuit, but with galaxy chocolate on top. And they sent us a bunch of packets of it. So thank you. Thank you for that. I think you were off, Keith. I shared them with everyone else. I go, seriously. Newsdesk. Had some online, had a packet, gave a packet to the producers desk weekend team. I dished them right. I only took one packet home. I dished them right out because I was worried about, you know, the old waistline, but. Snaffling pig company. But I tell you what else is delicious. I don't know if you've come across this yet. You know, Terry's chocolate orange? They do a mint one and that. That is. That is special. I like to try all the new things when they invent them. I like all the ice lollies. I'll tell you what else is delicious. Do you remember refresher sweets? The bright yellow refresher sweets? They're absolutely gorgeous. One of my all time favorite sweets. They do a lolly. Now, there's an ice lolly, a refresher sweet ice lolly available in Morrison's and all good supermarkets. So those are my recommendations of the day. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Why does food taste better when someone else has cooked it? And do snails get dizzy? Catherine's in Hemel Hempstead. Catherine, question or answer? Oh, hello. It's a question. Please carry on. What happens at the borders of countries that drive on different sides of the road? Can we think of such a border between Thailand and Vietnam and Afghanistan and Pakistan? I've got so far, but my geography is appalling. No, that's. I wouldn't have known that. I've got Thailand and Vietnam. I don't know. I mean, would it be. I mean, if you've got to go through a border post, it would be quite straightforward, wouldn't it? What if there are no border posts? Well, then you're in a pickle. You are in a pickle. You are in a. I mean, we're in. I. We're an island, so it doesn't count, does it? Because you're always going to go get on the boat and then they remind you when you get off the dosh or off the Eurostar, they do. But what we want a. Yeah, I saw a bridge once, Catherine, that may. It may be what you're describing. It was the most astonishing piece of engineering and I think that it did what you describe. I think that you drove onto either end of the bridge and it somehow managed to put you. When you drove off. When you drove off the bridge, you were driving on the other side of the road to. When you drove onto it. That makes sense. If it's a single track going to the other side and then by the time you get off it, it merges you the other way round. Yeah, I think it was round. It was almost like a figure of eight of some sort of. So one going under and one going over, like a mini spaghetti junction, depositing cars driving on the right hand side on the left hand side and cars driving towards it on the left hand side coming out. It is really clever. It is really. I wish I could show it to you. That's one big road. What if it's kind of, you know, the small little country bumpkin roads? Oh, you're a bit picky, aren't you? I mean, I don't want to know that. Into trouble? No, no. I see. So, like a little back road. If, for example, Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland diverged, then there'd be all sorts of crossing points. Well, I'll try and find out for you, but I guess what we'll get is someone who's got quite a lot of knowledge of one specific example, rather than a full gamut of all borders where this applies. I love it. What prompts the question, if you don't mind me asking? I'm a really bad driver and I came off of the Eurotunnel and I drove on the wrong side of the road. That doesn't necessarily mean you're a really bad driver. Well, no, I really am as well. So am I. So you're in good company. Nothing to be ashamed of. Although I've never done that. I've never managed to drive on the wrong side of the road. 1215 is the time. So we've got the question about driving on the left hand and the right hand. What happens when you reach the border between two countries where they drive on different sides of the road? Do snails get busy? And why does food taste nice? Why is food not as enjoyable when you cook it yourself? Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 18 minutes after twelve. We may have a problem. I don't think that Thailand shares a border with Vietnam. Max texted in to say that and Keith has checked quite a few people making that point. So Catherine wasn't kidding when she said she was a bad driver. She's managed to manage to traverse a non existent border. But the question stands. What happens when countries that have where you drive on different sides of the road with a land border and someone surely is going to send me a picture of that magnificent bridge that I mentioned. Otherwise, a very distinct possibility. I might have dreamt the whole thing. I do dream of bridges. I get quite moved by bridges. Bridges and cranes. It's all gone a bit partridge, hasn't it? I probably shouldn't have mentioned the mint chocolate oranges either. Also, what do you call a mint chocolate orange? What's it called? Because it's shaped like an orange. That's why it's called a chocolate orange. But it tastes of orange. But we can't call it mint balls. Keith. It's chocolate orange, but it's mint flavoured, not orange flavored. So what's it called? A Terry's chocolate mint. But that doesn't have any shape. Oh, it's a. It's a complicated time to be alive, isn't it? Mike's in Marlowe. Mike, question or answer? Yeah. Good morning, James. When you get a storm, there's Agnes. Is it the one we've just had? I believe so. I think so. But whipping up all that seawater into a storm and then it all comes inland and it all dumps itself all over Britain. It comes down as fresh water. Where does the salt go? Hang on a minute. What do you mean, it? What? The sea doesn't go into the sky, does it? Of course it does. What do you mean, of course it does? Well, in a storm, it all gets whipped up, doesn't it? An evaporation. And if it evaporates. If it evaporates, the salt stays behind. How? Salty water. Yes, but salt doesn't. When you boil salt water, the salt stays behind. Did you not do chemistry at school? This is like the first experiment ever, Mike, I swear. Are you winding me up? Are you winding. So you get. Go and do it. You can literally do it now. Put a pan of water on the stove, right. And put in a significant amount of salt, turn it on and phone me back before 01:00. And are you telling me that steam that comes off doesn't contain any salt? I am categorically telling you that that steam coming off doesn't contain any salt, yes. I'm not having that. How do you think. All right, let's think of it the other way around. How do you think they make salt? Yeah, that. By boiling the water away or evaporating. No, evaporating the water. But are you telling me that all that. All that turmoil across the Atlantic that ends up dumping itself all over Manchester and everywhere else in Northern Ireland hasn't got an element of salt in it? If it hasn't? No, I'm not telling you that because I don't know. That's why I said. Are you sure that the. Are you sure? What do you mean? Haha. That's like the opposite of a gotcha. That's like the sea might. I don't know, meteorologically speaking, whether or not a sort of typhoon or something sucks seawater into the air, it's highly unlikely that it then deposits it, because it couldn't turn into a cloud. If it turned into a cloud, all the salt would fall out of the sky. I can't believe you're laughing because this is mad. This is one of the maddest questions. Are you going to do the experiment for me, Mike? Good. No, go and do. Are you at home at the moment? Are you at home? No, I'm not. I'm at work. I swear to you that if you put a pan of salt water on the stove and go away, when you come back, there will be no water and lots of salt. Yeah, I get that. But that's boil. That's boiling. I understand that. Yeah, but it doesn't have to boil. I mean, that's just. You're speeding it up. The process of evaporation from the sea is. I mean, that's it. Well, when a storm gets whipped into those. All right, I'm going to put. I don't know that a storm gets whipped into the rain cloud, but I'll put it on the board. Mike, I'm not happy with your answer. Well, I can't believe you're not happy with my answer, but, I mean, it's possible that there's a very specific meteorological process that you're describing, but it couldn't become a cloud. You see, if it was salt water, because the minute it evaporates, the minute water becomes steam or vapor, the salt is left behind. And so, I mean, maybe someone can answer your question more satisfactorily than I can. There'll be salt in the air, I guess, tiny little particles. It's why cars rust more near the sea than they do around. So maybe that might be part of the answer. I like it. Mike, take 23 minutes. After twelve is the time David is in Cambridge. David, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. So in children's books and in comics, but comic books, when a character is sleeping and they're snoring, you see it written down as that. Several Zeds, that's kind of written down, yeah. What is the origin of that? Why is it ZZ? Now, I understand, obviously, that you can't exactly read the snoring sound, which I won't do on the air right now. But how did it come from Zz? Uh, as snoring, is it not the exhale? I'm not sure. I mean, I've never recorded myself as snoring going, uh. Uh, the hearing z when I breathe out in snoring. So you breathe. So you're thinking of the inhale, which is a. Like that. But. But the Z's in the be note are the exo. It would be. No, potentially. I don't know. Again, I'm seeing, again, is every person different with. Do they exhale, like, blowing out? So why Zed? What else could it be? What else could it be. That's what I'd like to know. That's part of the question. How was it decided that Zed was the way. Okay. Was it just. I mean, it'd be probably be a DC Thompson. It'd be one of the early comic artists or something like that. I can't see because that's where it first appeared, isn't it? I don't know whether it appear in literature or in song. I can't think of anything. I mean, we talk about Zeds, but what came first is chicken and egg. Now when you talk about having Zeds or having a snooze. Zeds. Getting some Zeds. Well, it's a nice question, actually, David, well done. Thank you. No, thank you. That's what I've written down on my notes. I just wrote Z, so I know what that question is. And there's David's name. 25 after twelve. Paul's in Tiverton. Paul, question or answer? There's an answer. James, carry on. The driving on the left versus driving on the right. And what happens at borders? Yes. Until 1972 in Sweden, they drove on the left. Right. In Norway they drove on the right. Okay, perfect. So there's a lot of country roads between those countries. Sorry, country roads between those two countries on the border. And the reason I know is because. Well, one reason I know is because I watched a film called Kitchen Stories, swedish film called Kitchen Stories, which I thoroughly recommend putting a film. Yes. And it was about a traveling salesman. Oh, yeah. And there's a scene at the border. He was in Sweden and he was traveling and doing his work in Norway, selling his goods. Doing some market research, actually. Yeah. And there was a scene at the border and what they did, if they simply had a border marking, saying, welcome to Norway, whatever. And they simply have a permanent barrier across half of the road. Right. So that if you're approaching from Sweden, you're driving on the left. Yeah. And you. There's this barrier in front of you. Yeah. And it says, welcome to Norway. Now you drive on the right and you just go around the barrier and that puts you on the right hand side of the road and you stay there. And that's not a dual, so it's not a two. It's not. There's not. Yeah. Okay. So if you're coming from the other direction, that same barrier is on your right. So it's still in front of you as you approach it. And you cross over onto the left and you carry on on the left. So that's what they did between Sweden and Norway. That's a good answer. And it gets you a round of applause. But I have been sent. I can add to that. It is called the Lotus Bridge between China. And how do you pronounce that word, Paul? Is it Macau? Is it Macau? Me? You're asking me? Yeah. I have no idea. Well, you're the only person here. I can't ask anyone else. The Lotus Bridge between China and Macau is the one that redirects you from one lane to the other as you cross it. Yeah, it's different. I mean, your caller, your questioner was asking about what happens on little country Lane. Yes, I know, I know. I'm not. You're getting a round of applause, mate. I'm just bringing the bridge into the conversation because I think it's interesting. Yeah, I have no idea. I mean, steady flow of loads of traffic. But of course you've got to do something else. Exactly. I don't know how it's done. So there's different. So there's different qualifications. You watched the film? I watched the film, yeah. Brilliant film. Kitchen stories. I'll jot that down and you get a nice round of applause the first of the day. Well played. Lovely stuff. So, Catherine, there are various answers, as I suggested that there would be, but Paul has provided you with a concrete example, albeit of a border that no longer exists and the Lotus bridge between China and Macau. I've been sent several photographs of it. Now, it's a really beautiful bridge. So imagine a backwards capital b from above and then two lanes and one of them goes under. Well, just look at it. Look it up. Seriously. It does exactly what it says on the tin. Ross is in Bridgewater in Somerset. Ross. Question or answer? I had an answer. What happened? You just answered it. Oh, no, I'm sorry, what? The bridge. It was. Yes. Where is it? China. Have you been there? I have been there, yeah. To talk me through it. Have you been over. Have you been over it? I have been over it, yeah. How exciting. What was it like? Yeah, it's kind of a pretty interesting bit of engineering. I used to go to Hong Kong and China quite a bit for work, so I'd be driven over it a fair number of times and often so get the experience of just looking at it rather than trying to avoid any obstacles. How does it. How does it. I mean, I think I had something a bit similar on my scale, extric when I was a child. Exactly. Kind of like the figure of eight scale. Yeah. And it would change lanes, wouldn't it, for the second half of the track and you. Which is why you had to have different colored cars. Yeah. I mean, it helps to know who's won, I suppose. Precisely. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I feel I stole your thunder very unfairly. No problems? A lot. Same here. Round of applause for Ross, please. Mad that. Really love it. Crikey, it's that time already. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC question still in need of answers. Mike's question about clouds, water, weather, rain, evaporation. Basic science. David's question about zeds. Why do cartoon people sleeping have Zeds coming out of their mouth? We've done Catherine's question. Mandy's question about whether or not snails can get dizzy, I think is unlikely to be. I suppose you could just say no and then explain why, of course they don't get dizzy. And why does food not taste quite as nice when you've cooked it yourself? And both gethin and I have personal experience of that phenomenon, so you are not allowed to challenge it. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 25 minutes to one and it's all gone a bit bridge based. This week's mystery, thanks to Emily, who, amazingly, it's almost an unbelievable coincidence, is currently making a large batch of pork scratchings. But she tells me about the Snake bridge in Macclesfield, which I was already aware of, actually. I haven't visited it, but I've seen photographs. It's a canal side bridge, which allows a tow horse to swap sides of the canal without untethering them from the boat. I don't know why I find bridges so mesmeric, but bridges that sort of do more than the normal bridge are even more mesmeric than bridges that just do normal bridge based services. Aqueducts are fascinating as well, aren't they? Yeah, you're absolutely right. Thank you, Emily. That is well worth people looking up, if they share my bridge enthusiasms. I'm not. I don't care. I'm not even pretending anymore. I'm basically Alan Partridge. That's fine. And those chocolate things, it's just called a Terry's chocolate mint. They've completely given up on any attempt to bring the spherical nature of the chocolate into the description. So, you know a Terry's chocolate orange? Yeah. Yeah. They've done a mint one. It's called the Terry's chocolate mint. It's just a chocolate mint, even though it's shaped like an orange. I feel they've dropped the ball there. So they could have called it that. But anyway, on we go. Hal's in Brighton. Professor Hal is in Brighton. A question or answer. Hello, James. It was the evaporation question. Yeah, it was a bit of an odd one that, wasn't it? Well, I don't know if it merits bandwidth on mystery r, because, as you've wisely pointed out, it is sort of GCSE chemistry. But he laughed at me. Well, joke's on him. He certainly is. So, I mean, are there no circumstances in which salt. Because sometimes, you know, saharan sand gets caught up in the atmosphere, doesn't it? So salt could perhaps as well, it's vanishingly small. The reality is, as you've wisely pointed out, when the sun or the wind picks up the water, the water effectively evaporates. It rises until it reaches a temperature at which it recondenses and it rains down. That's the whole basis of the water cycle. So every time we go to the toilet that goes into the sewer, the sun evaporates it off and it just goes in a big old cycle. The salt stays where it is. The boiling point of sodium chloride is, I think, 2000 degrees, give or take, so it's never, ever going to evaporate up. And even if it's whipped up, it'll just fall back down again. So, I mean, there's lots of evidence. I mean, black t shirts, you get those sort of salt streaks on them, don't you, because the sweat evaporates. And I'm sure you remember making copper sulphate crystals at school. So it's the basis of evaporation. I mean, those are the only two experiments anyone can really remember, making copper sulfate crystals and boiling up salt water to get salt left in the crucible. That's exactly. I mean, and as again you've always pointed out, the salt flats is where they make salt, that expensive salt you buy in Waitrose or whatever it is. Malden. Yeah, exactly. Those big crystals, you get that by putting salt. We did it on holiday, Hal. We did it in Greece. We brought our own home. Yeah. I mean, I tell you what, bringing two kilos of white crystals through customs at Kalamata airport was quite exciting, but they're obviously very easy to prove that it was sold. Qualifications, I'm delighted to say. I'm professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton for the time being. For the time being. One month to go. We'll be there. Well, we'll. Thank you, mate. Always a pleasure. And have another round. We'll squeeze in a couple more before doomsday. Thank you. Beautifully done. Thank you, Hal. Look after yourself. 1238 is the time. Gonzaro is in southend on sea. Gonzaro, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why does my mouth is drier when I drink more water than the days that I don't drink as much water? It feel like much more hydrated. Really? Yes. So when you drink a lot of water, my mouth becomes. Your mouth is drier? Yes. Is it going to be the thing. Have you got the. Is it. Will it be. Have you got it? Could it possibly be osmosis? But. But wait. But then if I am drinking more water, then basically, then shouldn't my mouth will be, like, more. You think so? Hydrated? Yeah, you'd think so. Well, I'll find out for you. I like it. You don't know why I just did that, do you? The osmosis? Yes, I understand. Because, like, water will pass through the. No, no. Why? You heard that hosanna in the background. Hallelujah. In the background. Oh, a long time that you don't use the osmosis. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, that was there. It was a, you know, very, very early gimmick, long before woke watch and Dory's watch and the rest of it. That was possibly the very first one, because whenever I didn't know the answer to a science question, I would say that word and quite often be correct. But I doubt that I am on this occasion. Thank you, Gonsaro. Why, when you've drunk a lot of water, does your mouth feel drier than it does when you haven't drunk any water at all? Tim's in Washington. Tine on weir. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, man. Right. Usually I have to listen to. Listen to this program on the podcast version, and when I do, yes, I get the adverts. And one of the adverts I heard a couple of weeks ago a few times was for WhatsApp, the messaging app. Was it. So it just. It was so it just got us thinking. Um, it's a free app. The pair to advertise it, the pair to develop it and innovate it. So, yeah. What do they get out of it? How do they monetize it? It's a good question, I think. No, I mean, you're on. Let's. Let's. Let's. Let's. Let's do it. Let's get it. Uh, how does WhatsApp make money, if indeed it does? I mean, is it part of Facebook. Which is it? Yeah, it's linked to Facebook. Maybe it. So it's all meta, isn't it? It's. I mean, literally, it's the name of the company. So, yeah. So how does WhatsApp make money, if indeed it does? I'll try and find out for you, Tim. It's a good question. Thank you, mate. Mind how you go. Steve is also in Northumberland. Would I be showing off my ignorance of english geography? I don't know, but Steve is in Northumberland, which is quite vague. You didn't chop that tree down, I hope. No, no, that wasn't me. No. Yeah, you would see. Wouldn't exactly own up to it now, would you, mate? Phantom tree. The phantom tree. Chopper. The sycamore. Question or answer? Question or answer, Steve. Well, I have a question, James, and it's one that's puzzled me for many years, and it's. Imagine you're sitting at a restaurant, okay, you've enjoyed a lovely meal, right, you're absolutely stuffed. Yeah, got it. You can't get another pig in your mouth. Not even a waffa thin mint. Yeah. You know, there's food left on your plate. You can't eat another thing yet. Yes, you can quaff a pint of beer. What's all that about? So you've got no more room for solid food, but you're going to be fine with liquid? Yeah, you can. You can stick a pint down your neck, no problem. I've done it myself. I have, I have to. Yeah. Yeah. How does that work? I don't know. You would have thought. I mean, is it the weight of the food? I mean, I don't know. It's a great question. Yeah. Well, I've quite often thought that, you know, maybe the liquid sort of, you know, runs between the cracks, like the cement. Like the cement in our guts. And the food is the bricks and so we're full of bricks. But if we could still. Well, that might be it. That could fit. That's actually probably quite a good. I don't know. I shall find out for you. So you've had a slap up feed. You've had a slap up feed with all the trimmings. You can't force down a waffa thin mint, but you can easily make short work of a pint of ale. Yeah, that's it. As usual, you captured it. That's what I'm here for, Steve. That's what I'm here for, is 1243. Alistair is in Orpington. Alistair, question or answer? Hi, James. Thank you. Stewart's inquiry. It's a steward's inquiry on the question regarding salt and evaporation and the sea and everything. Crikey. Go on. Okay. What happens is that you get spray over the sea. Most of that goes down again, but some of it goes up higher, comes into very small particles, and each very small particle of water actually has a very small piece, very, very small piece of salt in it. When this evaporates, you still get these very small particles of salt high up above sea. Later on in the cycle, these form a nucleus for raindrops to form. Now we're talking fractional, very, very small bits. And by the time a raindrop is big enough to fall out the atmosphere, it's a millimeter or more across. So they aren't actually very salty. But there is some salt there in every raindrop? Not in every raindrop. If you're over land, you get very fine sand particles or vegetation particles, but. So every raindrop needs a solid nucleus. Pretty much, yes. Well, I never. I'm absolutely minuscule, infinitesimally small, but something a bit like a pearl in an oyster. It has to start somewhere, has to go build on something. That's the current. That's the current theories on it. I mean, nobody's been over up there. That's the paradigm, call it. What are your qualifications? About 50 years back, I did a PhD on rainfall and radar, and it involves knowing a bit about raindrops. That'll do. Do they keep falling on your head? Only if I go out in the rain. A round of applause for Alice there. I think it was an enhancement necessary. Well, I don't know, actually. I mean, I don't want to rain on House parade, if you pardon the pun. But I liked that. It is 1245 mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1248. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC Question. Still in need of answers. Why does food not taste as nice when you've cooked it yourself? Can snails get dizzy? We've done that one. Why do cartoonists use Z's to denote sleeping? Why does your mouth feel drier when you've drunk a lot of water? How does WhatsApp make money? And similar to the water question. Another water question. You can neck a pint of liquid when you couldn't face another morsel of food. It just doesn't make sense. Either you're full or you're not full, but if it's a pint, it doesn't have to be ale. It could just be water. Chris is in Dartford. Question or answer? Good afternoon, James. There's a question. Please carry on. Why is a mister whippy 99 called a 99? Nobody knows. I think there's got to be an answer, because I've been to France and Germany, and they have the same thing as well, so it's got to be named after something. Well, I mean, it's. It's a flake. It's. It's. It's. The size of the flake is the best available theory. A half. A flake is called a flake 99. Really? Yeah. In the twenties. Okay, I'll go with that. Because you're quite a knowledgeable person. No, it's not. I'm not. I promise. I'm not. Well, I am, but not on this occasion. I just. It's come up before. It's a bit. It's a bit of a hardy perennial. We haven't done it for years, but that. No one is a hundred. No is 100% sure. All right. Okay. Oh, well, I'll go with that, then. You know what? I'll trust you on this occasion. Thanks, mate. I'll take the round, of course, but I won't. I won't take the game. Sharon's in high Wycombe. Sharon. Question or answer? Answer, I hope. Carry on. So it's to do with the. Why do we just. Food. Not taste quite so nice? Oh, yes. Yeah. Good. So I believe so. Lots of people would say, okay, taste is linked to smell. Right. But when you. When your cells in your nose pick up, sort of detect the stimulus of the chemicals. Yeah. That then goes along your neurons to your brain and in between our synapses. Yeah. If you said, what happens is that between synapses of a little. These calls that contain something called a neurotransmitter. And eventually, if you're surrounded by this smell, they telling your brain, your brain, your brain is telling it. So you're told the vesicles run out, so you become habituated. So I'm going to say something to you now. Good. But you will, you will recognize this. So before I said this, you will not probably have been thinking about the feeling of your clothes on your skin. No. And did you feel them now? Yeah. Because you become habituated. It's like a protective. Protective mechanism. Got it. So that's what I believe is the answer. That's a brilliant answer. Qualifications? Retired by literature. Yeah. It's beautifully done. Beautifully done. So it is. The fact that you're smelling it is. It's not that you're. It doesn't your brain's not thinking that you're full. Oh, no, no, no. This is just the fact that you have these. The chemicals are detected by these sensory cells in your nose that gets. So your appetite. Your appetite is not the same, then, because you've become habituated to the lovely smell. I don't know. I don't think so. I know, I agree. You don't waste the spot when you've cooked it yourself. I need to get my husband to cook more for me. Yes, well, it's a lovely answer and it's earned you a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. Lovely stuff. I've got some sad news for you, actually. Michael Gambon. Sir Michael Gambon has died at the age of 82. His family have announced an astonishing career. I mean, one of those titans of british stage and screen, which is a phrase that really does him justice. Younger viewers, of course, will know him best as the second Dumbledore in the Harry Potter films. After Richard Harris passed away, people my age probably watched him in the Dennis Potter. He was incredible in that, wasn't he? In the. He was so incredible. I can't remember what it was called. The singing detective. That was incredible. I remember watching that. But he was in loads and announced just in the last hour or so that he has passed away at the age of 80. 212 53 is the time. Simon is in Beckenham. Simon, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the snails. Do they get dizzy? Do snails get dizzy? Yes. Right. So obviously not. So the reason we get dizzy, this is because we have, like, little canals in our inner ear. We flew it in. Yeah. And when we tilt our heads, this triggers probably synapses or something on either end. And this is how we feel dizzy. So if you haven't got canals in your ears, then you can't get. So I'm assuming snails don't have human ears. I'm assuming snails don't have human ears either. In fact, I would go so far as to. I could prove to you that snails don't get dizzy. How would you do that? Have you ever seen one fall over? I'll fly through the sky spinning. Crikey. I think I know who threw it. It was Mandy's husband. No. You've never seen a snail fall over? So they got qualifications? A level. Biology. Yeah, whatever. Same age as you actually served you. Well, thank you. Simon bills in Brighton. Bill, question or answer? I've got an answer. Jane, carry on. 99 ice cream. It's not true. Whatever you're about to say, right, it's an open myth, mate. Which one is it gonna be? It's got a racehorse. Or italian soldiers. So I hang up now. No, I want to hear it. And then I'm gonna. Soldiers. Italian soldiers. What's the. What's the story? Oh, a regiment, 99. And when the italian migrants came over to England and they wanted to name their ice cream after something good, and there was a 99th regiment and they were good at something, and there you go. They called the boys of 99 ragazzi del 99 or something like that. It could be true, but so could the thing about the flag. No one knows. It's. I mean, it is actually. I can't. I can give you a round of applause because it is a. No, I can. I can. It's a plausible answer. It's on. It's. You know, it's part of the canon of answers to this question. But the bottom line is nobody actually knows. Fair play. Nobody actually knows. There's another one that it was. It was the first person who stuck a flake in an ice cream. His ice cream shot was number 99 on a road. That's another one, I think, somewhere in Scotland. But anyway, you can have a round of applause, bill, because you've added to the color. There you go. Bless you, too. 1255 is the time. Venki is in Croydon. Venki, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. First of all, thank you very much for taking my call and big fan of your show. Looking forward to the book. The answer is to the WhatsApp question. I hope. So. WhatsApp is essentially following the model of another app in China called WeChat. And this is because WhatsApp is banned in China. WeChat essentially has a business directory where they have business users. So, for example, plumber, cloakshop, you know, doctors, whoever else it is, they come and advertise their sort of wares, quote, unquote, on. On WeChat, and then consumers essentially subscribe to it and consumers can get those services provided to them. Now, WhatsApp does something similar in India. Yes, they do something similar in India, where essentially banks will have business accounts and, you know, we've just opened one, actually, LBC's just opened a WhatsApp account. But I don't know. I don't know that we pay for it. I don't think we pay for it. I'm not sure. Not sure either. I haven't seen it in the UK, but I have definitely seen it in India. So it's a work in progress, isn't it? It is a work in progress. So what they are trying to do is they are trying to increase their consumer base. Well, for obvious reasons. Data and this. Exactly that. And they've taken it from, essentially the idea has been taken from WeChat, which has got some of the highest ARPU, as they call it in the industry lingo, which is average return per user. Okay, that is interesting qualifications. I used to work for, not for, but I used to work with WeChat around sort of 2014, 2015 timeframe. I'll do a big round of applause for Venki, please. Oh, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Very, very knowledgeable. Thank you. Patrick's in reading. Patrick, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's just to add on the WhatsApp, Auntie Scott. So Facebook at the time bought WhatsApp primarily for everyone's phone numbers that were data. Data. So they're making money with it, but not through it. Yeah. So you're able to marry your kind of fluid data sets that are on Facebook. So you know it likes you, dislikes the products you buy and you talk about and you're political leanings, et cetera, to your static data set, which is your phone number. And that makes it much more valuable to companies, political parties as well, potentially. I don't, I forget precisely where the legality is, but most of us use it. In America you can. In America you can. I mean, still a huge multi hundred million dollar fine for data mining as well. It's still very largely not known how widespread it was here. Luckily, there's a book coming out on November the second that goes into it in quite a lot of detail in it, in the Dominic Cummings chapter. Oh, good. Yeah. Round of applause. Qualifications, qualifications. I've worked in data for ten years. Round of applause for Patrick, please. I'm tempted. I'm tempted to give the board game to Mike in Marlowe. Just cut a cut. I just thought that was the most enjoyable. It was the contribution I enjoyed the most. Not necessarily for the right reasons, but yes, if you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also rewind live radio. You'll also find all of LBC's shows there to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Rewind live radio on global player. Download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.