Tchaikovsky absolutely slaps

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's 1204, and it's the first mystery hour in two weeks, which means your opportunity to fill your boots with knowledge, illumination, elucidation, even a degree of education is upon us. But I can't call it weekly at the moment, given that Sanchez Javid rode roughshod over our best laid plans this time last week. The way it works, if you're not familiar with the futur, is actually incredibly simple and rather dull sounding. But the reality of it is anything but dull. It is, in fact, the only week, the only hour of the week, in which I am routinely prepared to offer a guarantee of at least one laugh out loud moment. Yeah, all right. I guarantee one laugh out loud moment. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a question to which you are desperate to discover the answer. And that is pretty much it, actually. The way it works is not dissimilar to newspaper and magazine features, except this is live, immediate and profoundly interactive. Try not to be boring. Pot, kettle. I generally, or certainly in the olden days, didn't like questions about motoring, although as I age, I find them possibly less dull than I used to. Do you know, the bora. If it's really, really obvious, then we've almost certainly done it to death before. And stroke. Or a question to which you can't imagine anybody else being particularly interested in. The answer zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Vivek is in slough to start us off. Vivek. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Good afternoon. Hello. What is the difference between a concerto symphony and a sonata? A sonata is. Is it not just a piece for one piano? I don't think that's why I'm asking. Oh, I thought you knew something. But not everything. No, I don't know anything about classical music. And I thought a man of your. Kaliba. Kaliba, yes. Yeah. It's an alcohol free lager, isn't it? I, um. Well, I. No, I don't know, mate. You're very kind. To think I mind. I could have a crack at a sonata, because I just think of the sonatas, what I know, and they're all piano solos. I think Alfred Brendel is keeping me company on the journeys into work at the moment, and his Mozart sonatas are beautiful. But a concerto and a symphony? I don't know the difference. I shall find out for you. Thank you very much. That's a lovely question. Thank you, Vivek. 1207 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can explain the difference between a concerto, a symphony and a sonata. And don't be put off if you think your question is a little bit weird. As long as it's interesting, we will almost certainly love it. James is in Shoreditch. James, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Do we feel the pain more when it's cold? Do we? Or why do we do? Well, I mean, what would you rather if I say do we? You'll just say, yes and cut me off. Well, then you could say, why do. Because. No, I wouldn't cut you off. I'd never dream of doing something so brutal and so undeserved. What I mean is, are we working from an established premise? I think we do. Right. I hit myself with a hammer recently. That was a bit silly. Did you vote for Brexit as well? Well, makes a change from hitting it against a brick wall, doesn't it? I suppose so. It was in a cold room and I thought, that hurts more than. I recognize what you describe. I think it hurts more when it's cold. But maybe. I mean, this is a nice question. It might be physiognomy or it might be a trick of the mind. A trick of the mind? Look into my eyes. It might not have anything, but it does. I recognize what you described. Playing rugby in the cold was scarier than playing it on a nice, warm autumn day. Exactly. Yeah. Do you know when I started playing rugby? James, have you got a minute? You might like this. I've up for you. Of course I have. When I started playing rugby, they used to have sheep and cows grazing on our pitches. I thought you could say bladders. No, not that old. And I will never forget. And they made us wear shorts. And I'll never forget it was so cold that the cow pats had frozen solid. And we used to hurl them at each other like frisbees. And one kid got caught on the thigh by a frisbeed frozen cow pat. And he got cut so badly, they had to take him to hospital. And to this day, James, to this day, I have wondered how matron explained that in a and e. Could you imagine having to say, here's an eight year old boy with a severely lacerated thigh. How was it caused? By a frozen cow pat. A frozen cow pat? Man. Stranger things have happened. Well, yeah. Our parents are paying thousands of pounds a term to send us to that school. I shall find out. But the reason I mention it is because I just associate that period of my life with pain. And the one teacher who used to shout at us whenever we go, it isn't. It's only pain. It doesn't really hurt. Why do we feel the pain more in the cold? What is the difference between those three musical opuses? 1209 is the time Liam is in Oxford. Liam, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Carry on. When you stop to the end of the film and you see the credits roll. Yeah. Which, I don't know if people do it anymore, but we used to do it stay there to the very end. But you see best boy. Best boy? Yes, you do. What does best boy do? I like that. I think I know, but I'm not going to go definitive. I think it's a camera assistant or someone in charge of. To winding up the cables and stuff like that. But I'm not going to. I'm not going to take that as a full answer. Are you winging it? Well, gaffer as well. Used to get gaffer on there as well, didn't you? And key grip rostrum camera was always Ken Morse. You were like me. You used to love watching the credits, didn't you? Massive nerd. I don't know why. Why was that? And then very, very, very occasionally, if you stayed in the cinema, there'd be a little pleasant surprise at the end of the end. Yeah. Some little outtakes or so I shall find out for you. What does the best boy do on a film set? 034-5606 John's in Northwood. John, question or answer? Good morning, James. And answer. Carry on, John. It's the musical one. The difference between a concerto, a sonata and a symphony. Oh, yeah. A sonata is a piece that is typically played for one instrument. Usually, but doesn't have to be the piano. Yes. So a famous example would be the moonlight sonata by Benthoughten, which is very well known and extremely difficult. At the end, there's a nice. It's got three movement in it, but basically it's a piece for one instrument, although it can be another instrument accompanied by the piano. You can have a sonata for violin and piano. A symphony is a work composed for the whole orchestra, right? With just the whole orchestra plays violins, timpani, strings, brass, everything, the whole shebang, the whole nine yards. That may typically have three or more movements. Tympani. Unfinished symphony only had two, but it's a symphony because it's a work for the whole orchestra. Got you. A concerto is an instrument is a piece for one instrument and accompanied by an orchestra. The Rachmaninoff number two concerto for piano. That was used on the film brief encounter. It was also covered by Eric Carmen for the pop song all by myself. That's an example of a piano concerto. But you could have concerto for flute and heart. So a concerto is a soloist plus orchestra. A symphony is orchestra. And a sonata is soloist or soloist plus accompanist plus a piano. But primarily the one instrument for a sonata. And the symphony is just the whole lot. You've nailed it, man. What your qualification? I'm a pianist. I'm studying for grade six. I have also been a member of a choir. So when did you start playing the piano? As a boy, then abandoned it for about 30 odd years and then started it up again? I've always had a piano in the house. My late mum was a pianist, an organist. She died, but I kept the piano. And one of those things you were going to get around to one day and you actually did? Yeah. Just working at it. Because it's something I love doing. I love that. Yeah. Well, do a round of applause as well. Good luck with your continuing studies. 1213 is the time. Regrets of my life. I have absolutely no musical or artistic talent. It's not the only regrets of my life. And it's not the only talent I lack. But I would love to be able to sit down and tickle the old ivories. You know, you see people at the station doing it. Do you see that? Have you seen that? Where they got the pianos at the stations now. Oh, dear. I used to be. I told you a few times what a ridiculous child I was. I taught myself to play take on me by aha. On the piano. That was the peak of my musical career. Ben's in Leeds. Ben, you better interrupt me because I've started talking gibberish again. I would love to play the piano as well, if it makes you feel any better. Well, we could be like duet or something, couldn't we? Like, hinge and bracket. Question or answer. Question or answer. Ben, I have a question, please. I would like to know why in the United Kingdom do we no longer have national days of mourning? When did. When was the last one? Unofficially, I think we had one when Princess Diana passed. But unofficially? Well, I mean, we'd have to lose someone of sufficient stature. I mean, we don't have a Churchill. Or if her majesty were to pass away, would we have a day of mourning then? Well, that would have forms? Part of the question. It does because. Well, I don't want to be in tragedies in other countries. They will have two or three days of national mourning, whereas we have no. No recognized days. Do it still? Do they still. I mean, they commemorate tragedies with a day of national morning. So. Are you sure? I mean, I'm sure they do. I just can't, off the top of my head, think of any. Well, it's not as embarrassing as. It's not as embarrassing as humming for release after someone mentioned the moonlight sonata, because I always get those two pieces of piano music mixed up in my mind. So, you know, I'm winning the embarrassing stakes this quarter, but I sure do. I presume, at risk of being morbid or glib, I presume that we actually haven't lost anybody of sufficient significance in recent memory and that if we were to lose the queen, we would have some sort of day of mourning. But I don't know, Ben, so I need to put it on the board, don't I? Thank you very much. You're very welcome. It is 1215. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. And the tune what I hummed was not the moonlight sonata. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve bullying allegations leveled at Pretty Patel on the front page of the Times today. Remind me that it's one of the topics that came up in my conversation with the former speaker, John Bercoh, which is available as a free podcast wherever you download your podcast. A global player app being my favorite method. But full disclosure, my full length interview series of podcasts. John Bercoh's week's guest, 90 minutes after twelve is the time I've got a real mental blog. So. So Moonlight's notice. And that goes. I just don't know why I bother. I couldn't get a tune out of a kazoo. Steve's in. Finn Findon in finding in Northamptonshire. Steve. Quite. Find and find and find and find. An Italy poe question or ask question, sir. Carry on, sir. I got up the other morning. This is not a car question, honest, mate. But the windscreen of my car needed scraping because it was icy. Yes, but all the windows of the houses in the street that I live in, none of them did. Yeah. What's the difference? People in the houses? Well, what would difference about me? Well, they've got insulation, haven't they? And they might have had the heating on. Yeah. This was six in the morning, so I think when I'm getting up. No, I know, but the warp. The house has retained the heat from yesterday. It's well insulated. I mean, this. I mean, Steve, mate, you put me in a slightly embarrassing position because it's very hard for me to answer your question without casting aspersions upon the intelligence of your question. The reason why the car froze in the house didn't, Stephen, is because the car was colder than what the house was. I stir. Yeah, they're both cold through the night, you know, the windows. Okay. Are you married? Do you mind me asking? No, no, no. You're on your own? Yes. You got a dog? No. Just on your own. Just on your own. Well, I don't know if it'll work with one person, but if you slept in the car, when you woke up in the morning, the windows wouldn't be frozen. Have to try it. Well, no, don't, because you might catch your death. But, I mean, it is. I do understand the question, but it is impossible to answer without at some point saying, well, the car froze because it's colder than the house. So the house is insulated. The heating will have been on in the day. The bricks would have retained some. So, very simply, have you got double glazing? Yes. Well, have you got double glazing in your car? It's no. Right. Round of applause for me. There you go. Get double glazing in your car and ring me back 21 after twelve. Obviously, when I cast aspersions upon the intelligence of a question, it is ordinarily a precursor to somebody ringing in and pointing out that actually I am the mug in this piece. So stay tuned for that. Andy's in Kilkenny. Andy, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Andy. Best boy. Thank you. Well, in my youth, I used to have a sort of part time or occasional job with a small film company. Oh, yeah. And my job was a grip. That's right. That's another one you see on the credits. Well, I was a dolly, which means I was the boy who. Who would push the camera along the track if there was a tracking shot. Oh, yes, of course. And grips are people that. To do with rigging and scenery and stuff like that. But the best boy is the gaffer's assistant. That's what I thought, but didn't say. Yeah, I mentioned the gaffer. The gaffer is the. Is the electrician. The chief electrician. So the best boy is the assistant to the chief electrician. Yes. Qualifications? Used to be a grip. Used to be a grip. Round of applause for Andy. Beautifully. Thank you. Very much. Thank you very much. Should we, uh. 22 minutes after twelve, should we take a musical interlude to remind ourselves of what the moonlight sonata actually sounds like after I managed to badly hum fur release instead? Okay. Do you reckon they give me a gig on classic fm if I ask nicely? Oh, is the mic on? Oh, lord. I didn't mean that for public consumption. That's. No, stop it now. It's okay. I like the mournful bit. Do you reckon I could get a little go on classic? I'd love that. I'd love that. Oh, I'd be glorious. 23 minutes after twelve is the time Joe is in Chessington. Joe, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Why are tvs not round? Pardon? Why are televisions not round, I presume? I think. I think binoculars, glasses, telescope. Yeah, but they're not. They're things you look through, mate, not things you look at. So it's wide and around it. Because our field of vision is rectangular. Is it? Yeah. Our eyes aren't. What? No, our eyes aren't rectangular. Very good point. Joe, I can't. I cannot argue with you on this occasion. But, but the. That's got that. Our field of vision is rectangular. Yeah. How'd you know? Well, I just. I just do. Hang on. Can you get a bespoke round tv? Well, I mean, I'm not the man to ask. You should probably be better off in Argos. But I don't know. I mean, yeah, you probably could, but all of the programs are made. Maybe it's because film is rectangular. Possibly, yeah, it'd be good on round tv. So you're recording, you recorded it on film. Maybe you could have a round one now because everything's digital. But when it was all recorded on film, you'd put. You'd shine a light through a square bit of film and to project it onto a screen. I don't know. I don't know. It's a better question than I realized. This. Do you like it? I like it. I'm looking forward to the answer. You might not get one, but if you do, I'm looking forward to it too. Why are televisions always rectangular? I like it. Thank you, Joe. And can Joe get around one? If we get a correct answer to the question, I might throw in that as a supplementary zero. 345-606-0973 I've done the cars freezing, but if I've made a fool of myself, then do fill your boots and ring in. Do we have national days of mourning anymore? Why do we feel the pain more keenly in the cold. And I think we've done everything else. We've done the musical ones, haven't we? And the rectangular telly. I like that. I love the ones where the more you think about it, the more interesting it gets. I like to think that I make radio like that, but I appreciate that. Some days, perhaps I don't. Simon is in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Yes. Police cars. Yes, they have giant, giant numbers on the roof. They do now, I guess, from helicopters and looking down the, you know, so do buses. Other vehicles could follow them and be in location. But I was just wondering if the numbers represent different, like Hampshire police, Sussex police, Kent police, etcetera. Why? Why what? Why are you wondering that? Well, have you got plans? Nothing. Yes. Can I run something by you, Simon? Go on. Did you ring in to ask why they have numbers on the roofs of police cars and realize the answer while you were on hold and then change it slightly when you actually got on air? No. Promise? Yeah, all right. How else can you change that? They got numbers on the roof. No, I thought you were going to ask me why. What are the big numbers on the roofs of police? No, indeed. Yeah, exactly that. Why are they. What is. Well, they're identifying. That's to identify the cars if you're doing it from a camera or a copter, isn't it? Yeah, I assume so. And then you thought, well, I can't ask that, it's obvious now. So I'm going to hang on. But when. Yeah, when a police officer rings in, goes, ah, James, the reason for the numbers are. Well, you think there's going to be another reason than identifying the cars from above. Yeah, but what is the identification? What. What denotes the same as the. It's the same as the. As the thingamy. As the registration number, isn't it? Well, I don't know. Well, we've gone off on a weird tangent here. I shall leave the question on the board for anybody who wants to answer it, but I think the buses. Because if you're in a building, you can see the top of buses and they. I think they just have a bit of the registration number on the top of it. Anyway, who knows? 27 minutes after twelve is a time, Jack. What do you mean? The cheese question has been disqualified? I don't. We never had a cheese question. Oh, dear. It's all a bit surreal today. Maybe play another record. Should we play another sonata? We got, um. What's the other good one that I like. It'll come to me in a minute. Jamie's in Kingsland. Jamie, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Jamie. So people from Australia are not generally known as australian. People from England are known as English, Scotland, Scottish, France, French. Why are people from Holland known as Dutch? Because it's Deutsch. So we thought they were German. They said Deutsch Dutch. I'm pretty sure this is correct. It sounds. It sounds like a funny one, but I think. I think because european countries are relatively modern concepts in a lot of what we take as traditional now is relatively recent in the great scheme of things. And I think that we had a kind of generic term for northern Europe. I'm not. It's not coming, mate. But seems to be the same with every other country. No, it's not, though, is it? Because it's. I mean, because that's English. These are english names. It's not. Of course, of course. But why do we. So we say, oh, let me think of another. We say kiwi for a New Zealander. Does that count? Or would you say, no, we call them a New Zealander. Because you could. No one calls them a Hollander. They're always Dutch. No, exactly. But they don't call. I mean, Holland. Holland. It's the Netherlands. Netherlands. The Netherlands. So I'm pretty sure Dutch as an english description of a person from the Netherlands is actually Deutsch as a misrepresentation of a german person. But if you were to take that, my word for that, at this point in proceedings, I would then try to sell you a bridge. But I still think I'm right. I just don't expect you to trust me. 1229 is the time. Rectangular tellies. Why do we call the Dutch the Dutch? Dutch days of national mourning. And why does it hurt more in the cold? I think it does. But of course, you're probably welcome to ringing and say, no, it doesn't actually hurt more in the cold. But the reason why you think it does is x. Corpsey makes a valid point about my on air application to do a bit of work at classic FM. He says, are you sure you could stay quiet long enough to reach the end of a movement? I'm not sure I could. I'm not sure I could stay quiet long enough to reach the end of an overture. Corpsey, now that you pointed out, that might be a slight flaw in my plans. It's only on days when I'm feeling very at one with the universe. Perhaps I could just come in and spin a few platters. There's some questions still need of answers, but there's still plenty of room for you to put a question on the board. Zero 345-606-0973 is the time that you need. Holly Harris is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. This one's got a funky beat. All right, how about. How about classical music, but with the presenter being all charming and erudite talking over the top of the music occasionally, like when I do a commentary on the House of Commons. No, I did just suggest live on air that I could improve Mozart's requiem by talking over it. I think I need a new producer. We can't let this stuff go out live on air. 1235 is the time. Jim's in Sheffield. Jim, could you introduce some maturity. Could you introduce some maturity to proceedings, please? Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Do pre talking babies, that is in the sort of babbling phase, do they know what they're saying and what they're going to say? Or is it just like a spasm? Completely random? I don't quite understand the question. I mean, they make a noise for a specific reason sometimes, so they might be trying to tell you that they're hungry. Yeah, but I've got a ten month old and she'll. I thought you might. Yeah, exactly. And she's. She says all sorts of things, but I'm just wondering, is she conscious, what she's saying, or is it just complete? Does she open her mouth? I think the answer is yes and no. I appreciate that's not supremely satisfying, but sometimes she will be trying to articulate externally something that she understands internally and sometimes she will just be burbling. Right. Does that answer your question? Well, yes and no answers to my question. That was what I thought. Yeah. I'm not going to take a round of applause for it because, I mean, I'm working it out with you as we speak, so maybe someone with a bit more pediatric expertise will be able to tell us. Because. Because there'll be a point. Well, there must be a point. There's a curve. It must be a graph, mustn't it? From utterly incomprehensible gurglings to first words. There must be. You presume there's an improvement on that process? Yeah. She can say dada and mama already. I don't think we can guess what that means, but a lot of it is incomprehensible and I'm just wondering if she said she knows that. I'm just going to scream or I'm going to say something. I'm wondering if she knows or if it's just completely random. I love this question. I don't know if there is an answer. No, I really don't, because it just, like I said, the more you think about it, the more you find yourself wondering. But I don't know if we'll get you an answer. We'll certainly try. Do babies know what they want to say when they say stuff? Ever? We need to say ever. Do babies ever know what they're trying to say, even though they can't actually say what it is that they want us to understand? Debbie is in Bulldog in Hertfordshire. Debbie, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Deborah. It's the numbers on top of police cars. Oh, yes, it is what you thought it was. They basically say they're identifiable from the helicopter. Each number represents a force. So 41 would be Hertfordshire. Okay. No, that's what he wanted to know. So it's a 41, and then you'll have another number to identify the car cross border. Yes. Then they can be tracked on the helicopter. But it doesn't just say 41. It says 41 and then a number. So I know what car is. There's some letters. I don't know what the letters mean, but I know the number. The number is for the force. Well, the letters, I think, reflect the registration plate. It might be. I don't know. No, nor do I. Doesn't matter. Qualifications? Qualifications. What? Taking the 999 calls or sending out, really. Was it stressful? Not at the same time, obviously. I can imagine. Stressful. Another one of those jobs when you run out of resources and you've got nobody to send. Yes. I don't do it anymore. I was going to say it's another one of those jobs that we never give a thought to, but should. Anyway, here's a round of applause to make up for it. Thanks, Beverly. Melanie's in Canterbury. Question or answer? Melanie. Hello. Hello. Question. Yes. Where do birds go in a storm? Any port. Oh, come on. As in seabirds or. No, no, no. Garden birds. Well, they go and sit in a tree, don't they? They don't. Do they not look up to trees? Now, there's a storm blowing in Canterbury and there's no birds in trees. Now. Are you sure? I mean. Yeah, actually. All right. Yeah. Okay. Where do birds go in a storm? Because they're not flying around and you don't think they're in trees? They're probably in a hedge. Well, some. I'm trying to think logically. And imagine that I'm a bird, which is not necessarily something you can do at the same time. But if you were a bird, you'd want to stay low and you'd want to stay hidden. So you. They're probably all in your hedge. Have you checked your hedge? Have you got a hedge? I've got a head and go and go and give it a shake. See how many birds come out. Because you know what I say? A bird in the bush is worth two in the. No, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. That probably is relevant here as well. Could be, yeah. But I don't know. I shall find out for you. Where do all the birds go in a storm? Thank you, Melanie. 1240 is the time anyone else got a block drain? So it drives me potty. I put half a litre of hydrogen peroxide down my block drain last night before bed. You can tell the family are away because I'm talking to you as if I haven't spoken to a human in 24 hours. I put half a litre of hydrogen peroxide down the drain last night and it hasn't shifted at all. And I don't know what to do now because I can't put my hand in and start having a rummage because it's still full of hydrogen peroxide. So what am I going to do? It's an outside drain. It's right up to the brim. Oh, dear. Daniel's in Preston. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question. Oh, I know, right. When they put satellites up into space, how did they keep him in orbit for as long as they need them to? What do you mean? You know, when they put satellites. Don't. Just. Don't. Just repeat it. And I understand what you said. Yes. And stuff. Yeah. Obviously they'll need to be a certain distance from Earth. Lantern will be in orbit. Yeah, surely. Yeah. But once it's in orbit, what's keeping them in orbit? Type thing when they're up there, what's stopping them just floating off to Pluto or somewhere like that? You know, the orbit is the answer. But surely there's more to it than that, because they've got. They've got to stay up there for a length of time, surely. Yeah, but once you're in orbit, you don't need any propulsion or, you know, it's. That's how planets work. You might as well ask what happens if the. Why doesn't the Earth float away? Why does the Earth. Hang on, I'm being clever. I'm being clever. I'm being clever. You might as well ask why the Earth stays in orbit around the sun and doesn't just float off into the solar system. It's the same answer. The Earth, a bit different. Why? Why? Why? Satellites, obviously, because they do float off. Don't they become space drunk after a while, don't they? I don't know that they do, actually. They get decommissioned. Well, they might, some mind. But if you wanted it to keep in orbit, I think it would. Would it? Yeah. I don't know. Well, I know you don't. That's why you've rung in. I'm telling you, I don't know that that answers the question. Well, why does Earth stay in orbit around the sun, then? That's a little. I think that's a little bit different because of the way the Earth works. But satellite. Well, this is the way the satellites work, in exactly the same way as the Earth. So did become space junk. Well, I think you need to get over the space junk angle. No, I don't know. Right. It'd be interesting if somebody knows. Well, I think somebody does. Okay. Do you want a bit of Swan Lake before you go? Bit of Swan Lake? Yeah, can do, yeah. Just don't talk over it. Why not, mate? You're joking. You think Tchaikovsky's got it nailed? Excuse me, I used to do hospital radio. I take it back on that says, well, do you want to introduce some tchaikovsky, then? Okay, go on. Right. Here's some tchaikovsky on LBC. Oh, that slapped David's in Stroud. David, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. David. Having. Having tuned in last week for mystery hour and it being shoved off by the reshuffle. Yeah, flipping away. It wasn't a reshuffle. I could have lived with the reshuffle, mate. It was Sajid Javid resigning without checking what day it was. Exactly how? Unfortunately, he resigned from the cabinet. But why is it called a cabinet? Oh, I like it. Do they meet in a small cupboard or something, or. Well, no, you know, they don't. It's not as disappointing as cobra, is it? Cobra? Everyone thinks Cobra stands for something really cool. It stands for cabinet office briefing room a. It's ridiculous. It's only 20th century that the modern, like what we have now as a cabinet, existed. But why it was called the cabinet probably does mean that originally there was a. You had the quarter star chamber, then you had a cl. No, I don't know why I'm trying to answer it. I haven't got a clue. Nor have you. Let's put it on the board, see what happens. I've got some other names for them, but. Yeah, well, we all have that. But this is a family program, and there's only so much Tchaikovsky a man can play in the space of a program that's not supposed to play any music at all. Why is the cabinet called the cabinet zero? 345-606-0973 why do we call the Dutch the Dutch, not the Hollanders or the Neverlanders? Days of national mourning. Babies babbling, cold and pain. Quite a lot to get through, actually, given that it's now 1245. You are, however, listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. In 120 years of its existence, labor has held power for only a quarter of that time, a fact Tony Blair shared in a speech warning that without change, the party could be over. Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I wasn't actually asking for advice on how to unblock my drain, but I'm very grateful to everybody for getting in touch. I do know my way around a rod. Thomas is in Brixton. Thomas. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you, actually. Carry on, mate. Yeah, basically, it's about the satellite question. You might be surprised to know, actually, that they actually do require some movement when they're actually in orbit to prevent them from falling out the sky. Yeah. Basically, what they require is they actually have their own fuel supply and they sort of using. I can't exactly remember how the mechanism works, but basically they have to sort of rotate using some sort of jet propulsion system. Okay, so they will run out of fuel eventually, then. Yeah. And I can't remember. I think after a certain amount of time, they actually do have to decommission them. So sort of. I think if you know about those, you know, you had the Skylab space station, which was then decommissioned. That was a number of years ago. That's where the space junk angle comes from. I don't want to sound ungrateful, but have you told me anything I didn't already know? I mean, the question is, how do they stay in orbit? Well, this is the thing, you know, they have to sort of. They have to. Once in a while, they have to be. Sometimes, I think, by. I don't know, really, if this was a Brexit phone and I'd now repeat your words back to you and go viral, but it's not the thing. All I can offer you in terms of an answer is that they do actually have a. Some form of propulsion and that they. And that will be part of this. So they do have some sort of engine. I mean, it must be minuscule, though, because how much fuel could it carry? It must just. I'm going to need more. Thomas, I'm so sorry. Yeah, no worries. I hope that's the start, though. Yes, it is. And I'll give you a snatch of applause. Or actually, would you rather have a little bit of classical music? Yeah, go on, then. What would you like? A snatch of applause or a little burst of something rather classical? I need my ego boosting. Bit of applause would be great. All right, then. Carry on. That's enough. I'd have played you longer if you'd asked for some classical music. I might just give you another burst before home time. Sanjay is in harrow. Sanjay, question or answer? James? Answer, please. Carry on, Sanjay. So this is about the babbling. Oh, yes. So babbling in itself doesn't represent any sort of words or meaning to the child because they're obviously, at this age, practicing their movements in their mouth and their lungs, moving their tongue up and down, back and forth, just to sort of make sound and just getting that coordination going. Yes. But interestingly, if I recall, the person who asked the question said there were nine months. Ten months. Ten months. Ten months. Okay, fine. So at ten months, they will start to make associations with their babble sound, with things that they mean. And the pharaoh, if I can give a quick tip to boost that, what they can do is they can actually help the child by actually making those words complete. So, for example, if the child, if the parent has a dog or the child's favorite toy is a dog, then you could actually have the dog and say to the child at high level, dog, you know, showing the dog, and sort of say, you know, make a sound of the dog, like, woof, woof. And what the child will do is connect that babble into words as it develops, and that speeds up their language. Okay, so the answer was yes and no. Sometimes they will be trying to articulate something specific, which they can't currently do, and other times they won't be. They'll just be making nice noises and reveling in the sort of agency of making sounds and noises and discovering things. Yeah. The only caveat I'll put there is this age related. So by the time they're eight, nine months, they will start to connect those babbles. So he is. So she is connecting her babbles. But prior to that, what are your qualifications, Sanjay? I'm a owner and a manager of a children's nursery in Harrow. Cool. Do you love your work? Yeah, I love it. I love it. I've got a fantastic team of ten staff. They do all the hard work, I take all the credit. You just sit there catching all the laughter. I get asked a lot. What would you do if you weren't doing this job? And I'd never thought of that before, but that would be a lovely thing to do. A really lovely thing to do. Like a real life catcher in the Rye. Yeah. And you know when children. When people say to me, how many children you got? I'd say 26. And they look at me and when they say, why? When I say, yeah, I've got ten leaders as well, you know, of course, what I'm talking about is the children. I look after myself. Give him a round of applause before he tells any more jokes. There we go. Thank you, Sanjay. Leslie's incultist. A question or answer, Leslie? It's an answered shame. Carry on, Leslie. I'm going to prove you right, though, sadly, about the birds, where they go in the. No, no. Should write a book. You know, the birds, where they go in storms. Yes. Hedges. Aha. Boom. Qualifications? Well, we were lucky enough to move down to the countryside about two years ago, and it's true enough, when the birds, when the storms come, the birds all disappear. So I. We look over farmland. So I asked the farmer and he told me and he said, keep an eye out in the hedges. When the storms come, day before they know the storms are coming, they go out, collect extra food, the birds, because they can tell it's coming and they hunker down and they hunkered down in an evergreen hedge, which we've got. You can just see them if you look quietly, they're just all curled up in little balls and hedges. I love it. And that was logic, that was. That was me employing Occam's razor and working out what was. Yeah. Most likely to be the answer to a question that at first glance, that's what they call me. That's what James. Logical. Oh, crying, if you please. Round of applause for Leslie, please. 1253 is the title. Great work, I like that. What else have we got? Rectangular tellies. I've had a lovely answer from Danny John Jules on that. And hasn't my friend Ralph little done well in death in paradise? Absolutely. Storming debut. I mentioned it because it's Thursday and this is O'Brien's away, which means I'll be able to watch it properly tonight on normal telly and not have to watch it on catch up when she's not in. So, Danny, John, Jules is the reason why I mentioned that, of course, another star of death in paradise has come up with a theory on why televisions are rectangular. But I don't know that we're allowing theories and you're not supposed to get in touch by text. Jeremy, it says here is in his car. Jeremy, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Jeremy, regarding actually why tv is a rectangular. Yes. So there is a simple. There is a simple answer and there is a longer answer. The simple answer is that because fins are rectangular. Yes. And the tv's always been catching up with the cinema technology. Yes. The further you go back. For example, Charlie Chaplin's movie were square formats, for example, and the first tv sets were square. So it's to do with analog film, then? It's to do with the shape of film when it's going through a projector or a lens. So there's no reason. Sorry, carry on. No, no. The further back you go, even because afterwards you have the aesthetic. Also for the aesthetic gets into account where a rectangular picture is able to show you more things. Of course. And now it's become so normal. I mean, no one would even want a round television. That was a ridiculous. Absolutely. And if you go back even further to the victorian time where you had magic lanterns. The pictures were round. They were round. You're absolutely right. What beautiful answer. Qualifications. If you seen the movie cinema Paradido, that's pretty much me with my grandfather and I've been also studying cinema. Are you serious? Are the producers telling me to hurry up? I could talk to you for hours about that if you were a real life cinema. Give him a round of applause for Jeremy. Producers got no heart. There's romance there, man. Dylan's in Birmingham. Dylan, question or answer? Oh, is that me? I don't know. Is your name Dylan? Oh, hello. No, it's not. Oh, well, then it can't be you. Are you in Birmingham? I am in Birmingham, yeah. No. What is your name? Got my name wrong. My name is Bill. Oh, Bilal, I think it's. I think we've had a mishearing error from the producer who was busy telling me to hurry up while spelling your name wrong on the screen. Question or answer? Bilal. It's an answer. It's about pain. Carry on. Yeah, you're telling me. Okay, so anecdotally we know that it is. People who come with, certainly with chronic pain conditions will tell, say that the cold weather is causing a flare up. The symptoms. My knees start hurting in the cold. Carry on. Yeah. However, the evidence base. So the literature would suggest that there's no link, but we know that there is, anecdotally and there are a few theories as to why that happens. Give me a favor, I haven't got long. My favorite is the cold weather makes people sad and that increases pain sensitivity. But there's no. There's no scientific evidence for it. There's just lots and lots of people who believe it. Qualifications? Qualification. I'm going to crack on. Sorry? Qualifications. Physiotherapist. Oh, that'll do. Oh, hang on. No, come back quickly. I think I've got. How likely is it that I've got RSI from being on Twitter? Too much. Unlikely, really, but swiping my thumb all the time. Yeah, that's a whole other discussion. I might ring you back. Make sure you get his name right before I ask him for a freebie. David is in Amsterdam. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Question about Holland. It was a term. It was a term used from the 10th to the 17th century on a former region which consisted of south and north Holland. And then after the 17th century, Holland became a bigger trading nation and was formed the republic of the Netherlands. Yeah, but why do we call them the Dutch? It's older Dutch. Yeah. Funny, isn't it? So, no, it's not your fault, David. You didn't put yourself through to the programme while telling the presenter to hurry up and not stop to have a lovely conversation. So you've rung in with absolutely no answer at all to the question about why we call the Dutch the Dutch. I beg your pardon? No, mate, it's absolutely not your fault. And the person whose fault it is will now be in the process of trying to blame somebody else. Ross is in Sheffield. Ross, question or answer? Answer. It's about why we call the cabinet the cabinet. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Yeah. It comes from the 16th century when they used to describe the cabinet council, which was used as a term of abuse, saying it was a foreign habit, because the idea was the privy council would be in a cabinet, which in those times was a small room rather than like a cabinet. So it's a french word. Yeah. And it comes from, as well, cabineto. Well, that's next for the Brexiters. We can't call. It gets a filthy foreign word. Ross, be quiet. How dare you? This is Brexit. Britain. None of our words have their origins on continental Europe. Henceforth, the cabinet shall be known as the box. Round of applause for Ross. That's it for this week on mystery. And I'm a little bit late for the hand over to Sheila Fergus. But I. But I'm dying to tell you. I know the answer. To touch. Oh, go on then. It's Dutch and Deutscher. As in Deutschland. Yes, that's what I thought. Means nation. Ah, Deutsche. The people, the nation. So that's the answer. Old English. Would you like a round of applause? Or a snatch of Vivaldi? Oh, a Vivaldi, of course. Come on. Thank you. We'll be back tomorrow morning from ten on LBC with me, James O'Brien. The best piece of classical music I ever bought for myself. I'll fight you. I'll fight you for a slot on classic FM. Carry on. They always have flowers in their window and everything and we're just angry and gnarly and calm smacks. Thank you, James, very much. That's calmed me down. A lot of time and energy and column inches are expended on the threat strangers pose to us. But for women, the man we live with, husband, father, even colleague, Mister O'Brien, is massively more likely to harm us. More of that after three. Jeremy Corbyn is visiting flood victims. But where is the prime minister? I'm a staunch supporter of Boris Johnson and I believe he's going to be a great man for the country. I really do. A great ambassador for England. Now I've supported him. Come on, Boris, come and support me. Well, in a speech marking hundred 20 years since labor party foundation, Tony Blair has said without fundamental change, the party could be over. He thinks you're still listening. Just about to what the party has to offer, are you? And what do you want from it? What change do you want?