Why do escalator hand rails move faster than the steps?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. Mystery out is underway. Just a last word on that life expectancy story, because it tallies with an awful lot of the conversations that we've had together. The weird thing, of course, is that the poor don't seem to care that the rich live longer, more comfortable, healthier and happier lives than they do. If you can't get them to be angry about this, even though they're livid about migration and political correctness, then there really is no hope. So, almost like it was all planned, isn't it? And now, much lighter fare. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of enlightenment and satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is this. You have in the back of your mind, somewhere on your mind, a question to which you know there must be an answer, but you haven't actually been able to find it. It's half term as well at the moment, so I think we should have a special half term flavour to Ms Tria. There are various rules and regulations governing letting youngsters on the radio, but I get away with it every day, so it can't be that stringent. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a question. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then, well, you know what to do. You ring in with it and provide us with the fruits of your knowledge. You're not allowed to look stuff up. It's a celebration of knowledge, of illumination, education, enlightenment. It can be silly or serious, and the only thing I'll do is ask for you to prove that you do actually know what you're talking about, but you don't really have to work very hard to do that. You can say you saw it on telly last night, a little bit of detail, or you might be one of the most regular contributors to this feature, who happens to be the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. So you can be as silly or as serious as you please on any level, at any point within mystery hour. All you need is a phone and a radio. And we're away. Graeme's in Hendon Graham. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Well, I've been watching the speed skating in the Olympics. Yeah. And they go flying out when they crash. And would it do everything to do with balance? And I wonder, why is it that they always race anti clockwise and that doesn't just go for ice skating? That's running that cycling, they are always anti clockwise. You've never, ever seen a clockwise race. I think it is not something to do where the heart is. What, does that sound nuts? I don't know. I don't know. Balance? No. I've got a feeling that it's got some. Because the heart isn't smack in the middle of your chest, is it? It's slightly to the left. I don't know. Well, you've got a heart. Have a feel, Graham. Have a feel. Now? Yeah. Now I've got a heart. Yes. Slightly to the left. Slightly to the left. So is that to do with balance? So you lean slightly to the left, you'll run faster? No, it's almost what I think I'm trying to drag it up from. People are right handed and so they go that way. Something like that. Go that way around. No, it's a good question. It's a good question and it doesn't answer. Is there a physiological answer? I think there is. I think it's got something to do with the heart, but obviously I'm not going to get a round of applause for saying, I think it's got something to do with the heart. Standards are a little. A little higher than that. I wondered if there is an answer. Well, there's only one way to find out. When you said you watched Ben. Er, I think. Yes. Which way did they. Which way did they raise the chariots? Anti clockwise. Right. I presume it was. I can't really remember. I'm thinking. I'm thinking. I'm presuming it was anti clockwise. Could it be to do with horses? So it started with horse races and the kid. No, I guess the humans. We were in. We were in. Do you know what I nearly said then? I said, we were in ancient Greece in the summer. We weren't in ancient Greece in the summer. We were in Greece in the summer and we visited some ancient sites, including the sites the original Olympic Games, and I think they just ran up and down in straight lines. I don't know if they ran around in circles. Why are all races anti clockwise? It could be to do with going on the other left hand side thing. Going round to the left. The thing is that when people mount horses. Yeah. They want horses on the left hand side, don't they? I don't know, mate. I've never ridden an horse. Yeah, people do. I get on the horses on the left hand side. I have ridden a horse, actually. I remember, but I don't remember what side of the horse I got on. I sure. I like that question. Why are all races all the ones we can think of, cycling, running, speed skating. Why are they anti clockwise? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. It gives you a flavour of the kind of question that we enjoy on mystery, although you can, as I keep saying, be as silly or as serious as you please. David is in Burchington in Kent. David, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, David. Why? Why do escalator handrails always move slightly faster than the treads themselves? Are you sure? Absolutely. It's driven by. It's bothered me for years. What? I mean, how much research have you done into this? Absolutely none. How many escalators have you checked? Oh, just about. Well, everyone I've been on. So if you put your hand on the handrail and you stand on the step, your hand will start running away from you a bit? Just slightly. Yes. Yep. Every escalator I've been in in my 73 years of running up and down stairs. I'm joined in the studio today by my nine year old. I don't know if anyone's picked up on this previously. There may have been an inappropriate giggle earlier in the program in the background, but she's looking very skeptical at the moment. We don't know if we recognize your escalation data based experiences. Well, your producer did. Really? Yep. It's mutiny in the ranks, David. Mutiny in the ranks. So when I come up a long escalator at Piccadilly Circus or Leicester Square, standing still. Yeah. And you know what? Maybe my hand does just move. Does it move slightly? It does, it does. Whether. Whether you're in a department store, subways. But if you've got a pendulum. Oh, I've got one right to hand. Yes, of course. Do you see? So the end of the pendulum moves further than the. So the handrail, it's on the same rotor, right? Yeah, this is it. Physics isn't my strong point, David. Bear with so what you've. So if you've got a pendulum and it moves, the extremity of the pendulum is going to move further than the fulcrum of the pendulum, isn't it? So your foot bit on the escalator is. Is. Are you with me now or am I making a fool of myself? Well, you see, it's all to do with speed and rotation. Yes. Why aren't they geared? Oh, that's a very different question, David. Now you're calling in to the whole kind of escalator industry. The original question is, why does the handrail move further than the stairs? No, faster. Not further. Faster. Yeah, but it's further and faster, isn't it? Look at your pendulum swinging. Where does it move fastest? Near the middle or near the end? Well, near the end, obviously. Well, there you go, mate. But it's not a pendulum. Well, it is a sort of pendulum. Oh, England swings like a pendulum do. Yeah, I know I'm going to leave it on the board, but I think I've. I think I've knocked at the door of the correct answer here. It just. No one's opened it. Well, somebody might work for it. Somebody might walk through it in a minute. 1212 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. You've got to be cleverer than me, which, frankly, on current form, is not hard. Ted is in Dublin. Ted, question or answer? I just want to say that I'm not cleverer than you, so. Bet you are, Ted. I bet you are. Go on. This is why I'm asking you the question. Go on. The expression, he wants to have his cake and eat it. Yes. Why can't you eat your cake? Well, you can, but then you haven't. You can't have it as well. Someone actually tried to argue this reasoning. Was it a politician who tried to argue that the phrase you can have your cake and eat it is logical. You can have your cake. You can't keep your cake and eat it. Think of it that way, Ted. Honestly, mate. Yes, you can. No, you can't. You can't keep your cake and eat it. But what are you supposed to do? I mean, why. Why do people say, well, you know, who put you through what's going on here? It's just because we're trying to cover irish issues. I think you've got a free pass on this, Ted, and you shouldn't. You shouldn't really have cleared the bar. Well, I take great offense to that now, because the last time I spoke to you on, on the. On the air was when the good old dup got into bed with treason. May and I predicted on your program, live on your program, that what would happen yesterday would happen. So there's only one. There's only one response to that, Ted, that I consider appropriate. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening. Ray Liotta. A round of applause. Honestly, he doesn't get a Ray Liotta for that. Give him a round of applause. There we go. Meanwhile, back at the cake back to the cake. It's still a stupid question, albeit that your predictions of the political turmoil in Ireland have turned out to have been accurate. You can't think of a plate. Ted, have you got a plate now? Right, so you can't have your cake on your plate and eat it. Yes, you can. You can't because you've eaten it. The cake that's on your plate. No, but you've got. You stop thinking of a cake as a divisible force. It is all cake. It is binary cake. It's a one or a zero. Your cake and it is either in your gob or on your plate. It cannot simultaneously be on your plate and in your gob, ergo, you cannot have your cake and eat it well. What's wrong with eating your cake? There's nothing wrong with eating a cake except that you can't have it anymore because the cake has gone, the cake has been consumed. It is an ex cake. So what are your qualifications? Cake. I eat a lot of cake. Round of applause for me. I was giving them out like confetti. Today you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. It's 1219. Welcome to James O'Brien's mystery hour. And some questions already on the board include why are all races conducted in an anti clockwise fashion? And why does the handrail on the escalator move faster than the steps? 1219 is the time. Jake is in file. Lovely part of the world. Jake, question or answer? We may never know. Mike is in the city of London. Mike, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. Mike, the anti clockwise. Yes. It's to favor right handed. It's because most people are right handed. It's like because knights traditionally were always right handed people. You weren't allowed to be a knight if you were left handed. But why would that affect races? That's why we travel on the left, on roads, I think, historically, isn't it so that you've got your sword hand ready to attack the traveller coming in the opposite direction? Yeah, it's. Stairways and castles are anti clockwise because it favors the defender with the sword. Has it not got anything to do with hearts? I don't think so, to be honest. You just laugh at me, right? Did you just mock? You just laugh at me in a slightly mocking fashion. Well, not necessarily, but this is terrible. I bring my. I bring my child to work and people ring in to mock me and laugh at me. This is terrible. So it. Because. So what? So it's just followed on then? Because there's absolutely no relationship between your sword arm and speed skating, is there? Which was the basis of the original question. Well, just. No, I mean, the basis is that most people are right handed, and going anti clockwise in an athletics event favors the right handed. I think you're right. Famous left handed athletes. Can we think of any? Well, exactly. Round of applause, I think, for Mike. Oh, thank you very much. Well done, you. Nice. 121 after twelve. Jake's in file. Lovely part of the world. Deja Vu. Groundhog day. Question or answer, Jake? Question, please carry on. So, like, you've got bobsleigh and you've got the skeleton bob. What does the bob actually mean? Yeah, I like that. We should. I mean, that's a really good question. I like this. I was supposed to have a half term flavored theme this week's mystery out, but it's all gone a bit Winter Olympics instead. But that's nice, isn't it, Bob? Was it invented by someone called. No. You're not going to get away with it. No, no. You know I invented dart, don't you? I've heard that one, I'm afraid. The Earl of Dartmouth, mate. Yeah, because it was raining when they were having archery practice, so he brought. He brought all his troops back inside and they invented darts. I shall find out for you. What is the bob in? A bobsled? Bobsled. You got a normal sled and a bobsled. I don't know. I like that question. Are you enjoying the Winter Olympics? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I am. I'll catch it when I can. Are you enjoying it as much as Mister T? Do you remember mister t out of the a team? Yes, on Twitter. He has outed himself as a massive curling fan. He's become a huge fan of curling as a result of watching the Winter Olympics on the table. That's why I love Twitter. Well, I didn't see that coming. No, there are two. There's another reason why I love Twitter, actually, is the interactions. My first tweet this morning was off Lennox Lewis, the former world heavyweight boxing champion. And yesterday I got followed by the bloke who wrote my favorite film of all time, Bill and Ted's excellent adventure. But no one likes to show off. 22 minutes after twelve, Guy is in Cobham. Guy, question or answer? That's a question, James. Carry on, Guy. Well, I've been willing to ring you for the last three years. At this time of year, with sting in the air and terrible phone line. Guy. We're not gonna have to. We're not gonna have time for much banter. We need to cut straight to the question. Unless the phone line improves. Get a better phone line. We can banter away to your heart's content. Right. Very quickly, then. Can you tell the age of an ancient woodland by the spread of the bluebell? Meaning that the older it is, the more the carpet of bluebells would have extended across the canopy floor. Precisely. Well, it's an odd question that, because you've kind of theorized an answer. What is the spread and how long does it take to spread a certain distance in the woods? I like that question. I mean, I don't know who's going to be qualified to answer it. Are there any nice bluebells near you? Oh, yeah, that's where I walk the dog. Is it? There are few things actually more charming in the english countryside than stumbling unexpectedly across a grove of bluebells. God, I'm getting old. 23 minutes after twelve. I meant every syllable of that. Gary's in Guildford, I think. Next week on mystery. Everyone has to be in alliteration. You can only ring in if the name and the place that you're calling from have the same letter. So, Gary and Guildford Bob in Birmingham. No. All right, just me, then. Gary, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Very romantic yesterday with Valentine's, was it? Yeah. Speak for yourself, mate. I'm full of cold. Why is a french kiss called a french kiss? And before you and before you guess. Yeah. I don't think it's to do with the French being the most romantic. Nor do I. Because a french kiss, I think of initially, you'd think of kissing on two cheeks or something like that, wouldn't you? Like a greeting kiss, that's your actual, specifically french kiss. But you mean a full on snog? Tongues and all. A full on snog? Yeah, absolutely full on snog. Why would it be called a french kiss? There are young people in the studio, so I'm a little bit reluctant to refer to other elements of romantic engagement that also employ the adjective French as a prefix. But I think you know where I'm going with that. It might just be their reputation as great lovers. I don't think so. No, nor do I. Obviously everyone. Yeah. I don't know. Well, they probably don't talk about french kisses, do they? The outer Mongolians. Why? Why is a french kiss called a french kiss? Zero. 345-606-0973 it's 1225. Can you tell the age of woodland by the spread of bluebells? I love that. What's the bob in bobsled. Why does the handrail of an escalator move faster than the foot plates of the escalator? There's lots here. Joe's in Wimbledon. Joe. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. So it is to your escalator. Question. Oh, well done. Yeah. So, there is a roller that pulls the handrail round, and typically, that's the bit that fails first. Friction wears it out, so it gets smaller. So what they do is they make it larger when they install it, which obviously increases the distance the handrail has to travel, which means it travels quicker. So you'll find that as an escalator goes through its life, the handrail will slowly get slower and slower and slower. Well, I never. There you go. I mean, that's. I mean, I don't really understand the answer, but you delivered it in an utterly compelling and plausible fashion. And you are clear. No, you're clear. Well, it's a living, mate. I can't complain. But you're clearly very knowledgeable about this. I'd like to say that I knew. Well, essentially, I used to work in an apartment store and I. Which one? Which one? Is it still there? It is still there. Good. They're dying, aren't they? The traditional, old fashioned department store in kidderminster back in the day. Owen and Owen. It's not even there now. I think it might be a TK max. So you were working there. Something went wrong with the escalator. Bloke came in, you decided to pick his brains. Am I right or am I right? I was decided I was going to ask him and he told me. So just. Just in layman's terms again? Yes. Because it. What? Why does it. So there's a cog at the end, obviously, a big rope that pulls round the handrail. Yeah, that bit makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Now, where the handrail travels, that cause friction, which will slowly wear down that cog. And as that cog gets smaller, the handrail goes slower. Yeah, well, because if it's bigger than when they install it, it has to go quicker to keep up, doesn't it? And how often would they change it? That. I didn't ask. I'm sorry, mate. You are genius. There you go. No one's ever said that before. It's first time for everything. And I bet you've never had one. Have you had one of these before? I haven't. There you go, mate. Gonna be a good day, James. It's only halfway through and it's already looking up. 1227 is the time Jeremy's in Cobham. Jeremy, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. I think on the anti clockwise racetrack, you're correct. There's a stewards inquiry underway. There's a steward's inquiry underway. I knew it. I knew it. Go on. The original Olympic games increase, which I thought you might have known if you visited the site, were run anti clockwise, but it was never for the reason that they thought it was any medical benefit. But it did turn out that horses, I know this run, are stronger on their right hand side, so when they were training horses and horse races, they did use to run them anti clockwise. I think that humans just followed that, but years later, they probably have discovered some medical benefit. So I think you were actually right. So, because you would lean. If you're right, if you. If you're right, horses. That's definitely true. Yeah. Horses are stronger than I am, so I'm not going to rescind the other fellows round of applause because I, you know, I'm feeling quite bounty. It goes way back before medieval. I think it does. Of course, it goes back to ancient Greece. So, I mean, I did have swords and daggers and stuff like that, but, yeah, I think it's got more to do with the. With the lean in, the favouring of the right leg, maybe, not the positioning of the heart. I think I might have plucked that one out of the ether completely unjustifiably. But I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. 29 minutes after twelve. Why is a french kiss called a french kiss? Do bluebells indicate the age of the woodland in which they nestle? Why is the bob. What's the bob in a bobsled. And I think we've done the others. Quite a few of you are pointing out that the original, this is for Ted in Dublin. The original figure of speech regarding cake was that you cannot eat your cake and have it too, which is actually easier to understand. And it was an MP. I sometimes think I've been imagining this stuff, but these days, Twitter is such a interactive medium that you help me out as an MP, I think, called Paul Scully, who, like Ted, tried to argue, albeit as an MP, you should probably be less quick to do so. Try to argue that you can. Of course, you can have your cake and eat it. You sort of can, but you can't eat your cake and have it too. Once you've eaten it, you can no longer have it. I'm so glad we cleared that up. It's just coming up to 12:30 a couple of questions still in need of answers. Room for you to put a few more questions on the board and hopefully we'll be able to get answers to all of them. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. You need to know why french kiss is called french kiss, where the bluebells indicate the age of the woodland in which they nestle so charmingly. Who's bob in the context of bobsleds? And is that it? What was the last question we had just before the break? Was that a steward's inquiry? If I've forgotten something, you'll remind me. You always do. Oliver is in Leytonston. Oliver, question or answer? Here's a question, James. Carry on. Why do we boo people? As a sign of disapproval. And where does it come from? Quite like that. I feel I should know the answer to that, but not yet. Everyone just does it naturally. It's not naturally, it's learned behavior. There'll be parts of the world. I mean, it's like nodding and shaking your head. There'll be parts of the world where they do the opposite. Sort of urban culture turned boo into. Don't you sort of boo something that you're admiring now? Sometimes. No, maybe not. I probably shouldn't veer into my first guess is some kind of latin word that has been adapted. The latin word for awful is bouvium, the latin word for sorry, awful. You might have just done. I don't know. I just made that up. Do you know who invented darts? You beat me to it. Can't make me laugh. My cough will become uncontrollable. I shall find out for you. Well, I mean, probably roman, I'd have thought. But I don't know why. You're right. Yeah. Boo. Why boo? And don't phone in and ask why. Hurrah as well. We'll do one at a time. All right. Why is boo a symbol? A sign of disapproval. Thank you, Oliver. Jenny is in Kendall. Jenny, question or answer? We're doing a lot of words, ones. We're only supposed to do one words. One a week. It's not your fault, Jenny. I'm complaining to my colleagues in a very subtle and diplomatic fashion. Question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Where does the term a rasher, a bacon come from? I know this. When all other meat is served in spices. No, I know this and it's going to come to me. I know it is. I know this. It comes from. Oh, Radic. That's not going to happen. Oh, I can't believe it. I knew this. I knew this. I knew this. I knew this. Something to do with the French or. Oh, really? No, maybe it's not happening. My fever is growing, Jenny. My fever is growing now, hasn't it? It comes from somewhere. Because all of the meat is in slices. Beef and ham. And yet why a Russia? Russia's Russia. I don't know. I'll find out for you. But we've now got Boo Russia and French kiss and we're only supposed to have one etymology word based question a week. I don't know what's happened. It's almost like it's all going to part, isn't it? It's exactly what it is. You let the children into the studio, everything goes down the tiller. Right? I'll get you an answer to that if it kills me. Russia. Why Russia? Thank you. Zero. 345-606-0973 can we have no more word questions, please? Has that message reached hq? No more questions about phrases or words. We're supposed to do one a week of time. Belinda, a lovely name is in Kilburn. Question or answer, Belinda. Hello. It's a question. Carry on, Belinda. Okay, I've just got an iPhone. I know I'm a bit late, but I've just got an iPhone and I have a health app on it that tells me how many steps and kilometers I walk every day. Yes, right. I'm a dog walker. I walk a lot of. I do a lot of walking. Fair enough. How do they know. How does the phone or the app know how many steps you're taking? And. And, for instance, my husband is six foot three. He takes whopping great steps. Yes. I'm only five foot seven and I take lots of little steps. How do they know. How do they work out? Counts the bounces. Counts the bounces. Is that really. That's what my husband said. He. Well, he's a very clever man, Belinda. Why on earth did you phone me to check up on him behind his back? Because I don't believe him. It doesn't seem right. Is he in the habit, your husband, of providing very plausible sounding answers that don't appear to have any basis in fact or experience being a man? I don't bounce much when I'm walking. You bounce more than you realize, Belinda, if you'd allow me to say so. That is what it is. It is what it is. Yes. Absolutely positive. You can trust me more than you can trust your husband. He was just talking out of his hat. I happen to know this for scientific reasons because we've done it before. We've done it before. Spying on me somewhere. They're definitely not spying. Well, they might be, but that's not how they know how many steps you've taken. They use that. That's just for listening to your conversation. Yes, it is. Okay. All right. I hope there's a stewards inquiry. I hope there isn't because I'm not getting many rounds of applause. How has the iPhone changed your life? What did you have previously? I had. I had a Nokia Lumia, which is actually better in some ways for some things, for photographs and things like that. Are you not feeling that? My entire family is on iPhones and so they made me swap it because then you can do FaceTime and ichat and all the other silly things. And are you not feeling the benefits of it yet? You know, you sound a little. I really love it because my computer is an iMac and so I understand you've got full synergy now. I have, I have. But I'm still confused about how many steps I'm doing because sometimes I feel like I'm walking miles. Yes. Only 6000 steps. Other times it's 10,000 steps. Well, I don't. I mean, he's definitely counting the bounces. So maybe sometimes you're more bouncy than you are. Other times, I don't know, it might be linked to your mood or something or whether you're listening to me on the radio. You probably bounce more than you do. I listen to you every day, James, because I'm driving around picking up dogs and dropping them off. You need to listen to me more when you're walking and then you'll bounce more and you'll do more stature. I can't listen to you when I'm walking. Why not? To concentrate. Because I've got ten dogs. I need to concentrate them. All right. No, fair enough. Border Collies. Border collie. Have you thought about buying a small chariot? I have. Many people have suggested who touched on Charlton Heston today? I like the way the program is sort of being knitted together from the first comments about the guns right through to the middle of mystery hour. Belinda, thank you. I hope you and your iPhone have a long and fruitful relationship together. I'll take a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Alistair is in Lytham St. Anne's. There's Dawson's hometown. Alice, the question or answer? It's an answer, James, on the escalator. Oh, no. I thought we dealt with this. No, no, it's a safety mechanism. The reason why the hand part moves faster is so that it pulls you forward. You're leaning forward all the time. If it was moving at the same speed, you'd be leaning backwards. It's like climbing a mountain with a rope. Was there anything in what the other fellow said about the cog getting worn away? No, but I was so complimentary to him, I practically rolled out the red carpet. Alistair. I know, but it's like if the cog wore out, they'd wear out in your car. Engine on your fan. I did think that at the time. I thought, that doesn't quite tally. And also, I mean, it'd have teeth, wouldn't it? It wouldn't have a. Like. Do you think the bloke who came to Ely's in Wimbledon to fix the escalator was having a laugh at our chum's expense? He didn't know the answer. He just. No, he was having a laugh. I think he might be. What are your qualifications, then, clever clogs? Engineer. Well, what sort of engineer? Bosses. So you know a lot about belts? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Give him a round of applause. I'm not going mad, am I? There is a link between Les Dawson and Lytham. Yeah? Yeah, you should. Down the road. That's what I thought. I like Lytham. Lovely. But I tell you what, though, Alice, the Blackpool's gone down the toilet, hasn't it, in the last few decades. It's not the best place. Used to be. We used to go there as kids. My sister and I used to love Blackpool and we'd stay in lithium because, you know, mum's a bit hyacinth bouquet like that. So, yeah, stay in Lytham and then go out to Blackpool. But I was chatting to a mate of mine about Blackpool the other day and it was. Just. Sounded horrible. Yeah. I mean, it's really sad, really, because the largest part of Blackpool is beautiful, but I know 25% of it's terrible. Ho hum. Did I give you a round of applause? I can't remember. I did. Thank you very much. 1243 is the time Martin is in league. Martin. Hello. Question or answer? I'm good. Carry on answering the question. Why is Bob in Bobsleigh? Yeah. Reason being, when they first started the bobsleigh race, someone said he looked like they were bobbing up and down to move the sleigh. That is it. Qualifications. My friend is representing Great Britain in the foreman. Bobsleigh. Shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up. What's his name? Joel fearing. Joel Theron. Uh, childhood friend. And the reason why I asked him the question was, my son asked me and I was stumped. Joe or Joel? Joel. J o e l. You found him yet? Used to be a sprinter and everybody still is, isn't it? Yeah. From Coventry. Uh, childhood friend. You still in touch? Still in touch, yeah. You messaged us yesterday, last track session. And they go on the ice tomorrow. We've got, is it a raiders? Is it a raylie? Art? It's got. I mean, it's close to a Rayleigh otter. I mean, if it was Joel himself on the line, but obviously he's in South Korea at the moment. And you know the answer to this because you asked your mate who's in the british bobsled team. He could have been yanking your chain. Oh, well, no, it's not because my son asked me and then I am. You texted Joel, you said, joe, mate. Joel, mate. You said, martin here. What's that? What's the score with the old bobbin? Why is it called Bob sled? And he said, cuz you bob up and down. That was literally boots, really, Oda. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. They will. And they did. And a round of applause as well for you. Send him our best. Tell him that he got a big mention on mystery out, so if he doesn't win a medal, this will make up for it. No, I know. I tell him that personally. Thank you very much. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. A little bit of controversy surrounding that Ray Liotta, and also some fairly compelling evidence that the answer may have been wrong. But, hey, it's 1249. Paul is in. Lowest off. Paul, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Paul. Really need some answers, mate. You sure you don't want to do an answer instead on the bluebells? Rasher, a bacon. Take a pop at it, yeah. No, we don't do pops. No, I can do wild guesses. What's your question? Right, why is so much faith given to a hallmark on a piece of jewellery? Yeah. You take a ring into a jeweler's, he'll look at it with his microscope, say it's the hallmark. Says it's a nine carat gold ring, so it's worth x amount. What's to have stopped the wing maker stamping it with a 24 karat gold hallmark to make it worth ten times more? So why do the jeweler just have so much faith that the hallmark is correct when they could have stamped it with absolutely any hallmark they wanted when it was made. Well, I mean, you could ask that about anything, couldn't you? It's obviously quite carefully policed and regulated. If I went into a pawn brokers now with a ring, he'd look at the hallmark, he'd weigh the ring and tell me what. What it was worth so I could have the same ring, one with a nine karat gold stamp and one with a 24 karat gold stamp. The 24 karat gold one will be worth considerably more. If I was a jeweller making nine karat gold rings and I was a bit of a rogue, you'd stamp them all with a 18 or 24 karat gold hallmark and all of a sudden, you've earned four times, five times as much. So why do they trust them so much? I. I think it's obvious. But you don't. So I'll leave it on the board. Let's see if anyone else can answer it. Yeah, no, I see what you mean, because I'm sort of saying because they have to. But. But it'd be the same with forgery, wouldn't it? I mean, wouldn't it? No. In the old days with gold, they used to use the water displacement method. So a hard lump of gold. Yeah. They would see how much water it displaced to make sure no one had taken gold and melted something else down to make the mass up again. But they don't do that with jewellery either. It's not like they sort of do a water displacement test to see what the purity of the gold is versus its weight. Yeah, I lost. Yeah, I gotta be honest with you. I nodded off halfway through that. But I'll leave the hallmark question up on the board. I'm going to steer clear of the water displacement because I don't understand, Paul. Thank you. 1251 is the time. So we've got the hallmarks. Rasher. Why rasher of bacon? Why French kiss the blue bells and boo. Why is boo a sign of disapproval? Kevin is in Boreham wood. Kevin, question or answer? I've got the answer, I think, James, to your french kiss. Question. Oh, I. Okay. It's originally called the Florentine kiss, and what it was, it was bought back from the american and british soldiers from World War one. And when they. It's older than that. No, no, this. Well, this is as far as I. And it was brought back from World War one, of course, when they. When I greeted their wives and girlfriends and started the french kiss. Yeah, they said, what's going on? And they said, this is the way the french men kiss their women. And that's became known as the french kiss. So you would say it's only about a hundred years old. Yeah. Well, it's called. It was called the Florentine kiss, so I can't go back any further than that. But the French. Florence is in Italy. Yes, but it was called the. Was called the Florentine Kiss originally, but when the british soldiers came back home and the american soldiers from World War One, they was kissing their women like that, and they said this is how they'd never done it. They'd never kissed with tongues before. Well, I wasn't there, but, you know, I mean, it does. You don't, do you do. I mean, it. I don't want to be a little comes quite naturally, doesn't it? I mean. Well, you don't know, dear. Then at that time of day, it was a little bit staged, wasn't it? You know, I mean, speak for yourself. Qualifications? Qualifications, Kevin? Well, I just. I just read military history. That's all. I really. That's. That's all it's based on, to be honest with you. That's fair enough. I mean, so I don't. I think that they were kissing with tongues before this happened. But I think your answer explains how it got the name French kissing. Yeah, but I mean, sometimes. Yeah, we're watching programs on the telly, you know, like, that's based in victorian areas. I often say to my wife, the way they carried on, it's amazing how any of us ever got here. Yeah, I hear you. I do. You know, I'm saying, but I think so. I mean, something like using your tongue in a kiss. That time of day was probably revolutionary. And. You really think? I think so. Do you? I mean, what about the Romans? They were at it like knives. Don't know what he's made that. Orgies. Yeah, but you don't know the. I mean, that's. That's the foot. That's the only first recorded thing I've ever read. I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Oh, thanks. That's all right. I don't normally do that on a first date, Kevin. No, I. Well, we're both suffering with a cold, so I think we should. Suffering bravely. I'm glad neither of us are moaning about it. We're just soldiering on. Get it? See what I did there? Soldiering on. Military. No. Nearly there. Mark's in Kidderman. Oh, God's own country. How's the old town, Mark? Hello, James. How you doing? I'm all right, mate. How are you? I'm very good, thank you. Excellent. Whereabouts in kiddie are you? Uh, well, Broadwaters. Broadwaters, yeah, just. Just looking down onto the park. Now, do you know. Do you know that my nine year old daughter is sitting in the studio in her kid and Mister Harrier's hooded top as you speak? Now, that is that small world, or is that small world? There we go. Broadwaters. It's the closest Kidderminster comes, really, to a country park. It's one of the nicest bits. Yeah, it's pleasant. I used to have some friends who lived on. Anyway, this possibly isn't translating for the million people listening to the program quite as well as it is for you and me. Question or answer, Mark? Well, first one call over with an answer, so be gentle. Did you know I was from Kidderminster when you rang in? I did, yes. I've been listening for a couple of years now. Good man, good man. Carry on. So, to do with the phrase have your cake and eat it too. Oh, yeah. Well, the reason it doesn't make any sense is that it's been misquoted and it's misquoted since the 16th century. Originally it was, you can't eat your cake and have it too. Right. So there we go. And that makes. That makes more sense. Now, the reason you know that is because you went to Harry Cheshire High School, where you received an excellent education. Definitely not. Now, I'm from Stowbridge, originally, going to the Grange. Fair enough. Now, how do you know that? Well, there's a tv show on Netflix called Mindhunter. I've heard this. The unabomber. Yes. It was a bit before my time, so I didn't know anything about it, but I found it really interesting. But the reason they managed to catch him was they actually quoted that phrase in one of his letters to the newspapers, and he quoted it literally correctly. That sort of set them on the route that he was. Because it was rare for someone to get it correctly. Absolutely. Lovely. So it sort of built up their idea what they went on to call forensic linguistics. And it's all explained in the show. What's that really steep hill just over the road from you? Oh, yes. Yeah, it is Zion Hill. That is steep, that hill. Oh, I tried to avoid it. Yeah, I bet you do. That would be my advice. You've got yourself a round of applause. I like that. Thank you very much. Flying the flag for kidderminster. Oh, I feel homesick now. I haven't seen my mum for ages. Mark, if you see her in town, give her a wave, will you? I will do. Thank you, James. Cheers, man. 1256 is the time. Jonathan is in Oxbridge. Jonathan, question or answer? An answer, James. Carry on. What are you doing in Oxbridge? Well, no, that's right. That's where I come from, in the labor. I was there the last time I rang you, I think. Oh, it's just stayed on the system. I was going to say, you could pop in and see Scott in balcony shirts, give him a wave. Yeah, I go in all the time. That's where I get my t shirts. Right. I thought it was carry on. Yeah, yeah. Um. Yeah, it's. It's an answer. Carry on. I answered it the last time. What? Rasher of bacon. I remember it. Your accent is resonating with me. I could hear your voice when he asked the question, but I couldn't remember the answer. Isn't that funny? It is hilarious. Go on. That's why I remembered it, because your. Your charming accent lent itself to the Italian in a way that could. Yeah. Brassare, por favore. Por favore. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Spell senti is one for you. Spell senti, amig. Presto. That means, I hope you get well soon. Oh, grazimile. You feel better? To put it means to shave. So I get a shaving of bacon is rasher. It's a shaving rasare. Qualifications. You speak of the lingo. Round of applause for cornish Jonathan. God bless you, too. Last word to Barry, who's in Colchester? The Barry. Question or answer? Hello? Yeah, it's an answer. Carry on, Barry. And it's about the Hallmark question, quite quickly. Yes, it's all done by the assay office up in London. There is nine. There is 1422 karat gold, and the hallmark stamps are the legal stamp for purity on the gold. But what's to stop you from faking it? That was the question, wasn't it? You can't fake it, because if anybody's going to buy a lump of gold and it's from jewellery, you'd look at the quality first, and then you do a slight acid test, and the acid tests on the gold will determine whether it's 914 or 22 karat gold. And that's the origin of the phrase acid test? Yeah, that's it. And that's why we love mystery hour. Barry. Qualifications. I'm a pawn broker and work in the jewellery trade. Boom. What a lovely mystery, Barry. That was a crowning glory crowning. That's it for me for another day. I hope I'll be here tomorrow, but frankly, this awful cold that I've got probably scupper me. There's only one way to find out. Tune in tomorrow at ten. It's Sheila Fogarty. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.