How do the French impersonate the English?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. I don't think anyone says my name with more enthusiasm than that chap at the end of the mystery hour. Only my name was said with that sort of enthusiasm. In a few more circles, my life will be complete. And as Keith points out, he's getting paid. Four minutes after twelve, mystery Hour is upon as your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. What do I mean by that? Well, wait and see. If you're new to this, you're in for a bit of a treat. If you're not new to this, then you will know that you are in for a bit of a treat. You ring in with a question and somebody else rings in with an answer. The only rule is that you're not allowed to look anything up. It rather just spoils. I mean, what would be the point of doing this if you could google everything? It would just be ridiculous. I mean, I used to give you a slightly pompous account of it being a celebration of illumination and education. Elucidation it is, but it was invented largely to fill an hour on days when there was an election, and it proved so popular that we've been doing it ever since. Every single Thursday. And there it is. I have a prize for you. If yours is the best contribution. It's entirely up to me. It's entirely up to me. And therefore, no quibbling. The terms and conditions are LBC dot co dot UK, comma. But there is a fresh mystery hour board game on its way to my favourite contributor of the day. I think that pretty much covers it. If you want to buy your own copy, then mysteryhour dot co dot UK is probably the best place to go. Although, of course, it is available in many prestigious retail outlets as well. I got distracted there. You could probably tell because Julian Epsom sent me a lovely text and it's too complimentary to read out. But I want you to know that I read it, Julie, and I hope it. I hope you're feeling a bit better and it really means so much to me to know how much the program means to you. That's a really, really lovely thing. Thank you. And yes, I look forward to mystery hour as well. A little bit more than is perhaps entirely healthy. Julie, five minutes after twelve is the time. Dean's in Shoreham. Dean, question or answer? Hello, James. Got a question? Why does nobody make mouse flavored cat food? Come off it. Who put you through? I'm not. I'm not gonna fall out of you because I'm in a very, very good mood. But that's. I mean, what. Who decided that was an acceptable question for the. For the super popular? I just. I want to know. I want to see. I want to see. Hands up. Whose idea was that? Your producer. Right, okay. Um. Because, you see, when I've had cats all my life, and, you know, the tin has, you know, lamb or beef. I think we're familiar with cat. We're familiar with cat food. And they also like catching. Yeah. I've never seen a cat hunt down a lamb or a cow. No. All right, I'll put it. I'll put it on the board. Let's see how we get on. Billy's in Hackney. Billy, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. How is it possible, either scientifically, psychologically or logically, how is it possible that I can identify. A lot of us can identify whether someone's black or asian when they're talking. But if we don't see them, like on the radio, it's happened many times. And these are people who are born and brought up here. This could be someone in our. In my. Sorry. This could be someone in my school where, you know, we were born and brought up in the same environment. But when we talk and we've got our eyes closed, we can tell that person's black or asian, even though we're all saying the same thing. How is that even possible? It's not. It's not always possible. Many a times. Many a times. And that happens especially on the radio. What's your ethnic. Do you mind me asking? No, no. Absolutely fine. My parents are from Pakistan. I see. I wouldn't have had a clue, but I can tell. Of course you can. You can see them. No, no, no. If I can't but they've told you that they're from Pakistan. I can't tell that your parents are from Pakistan by listening to you here. You can't say it, but you can't tell. But I can, so when I listen to the radio. What do you mean, you can tell? Of course. You know where your parents are from. They're your parents. No, where are my parents from? No, no, I said asian or black. Let me try again. A quick question. How do. How is it possible that I can tell that someone is asian or black? I'm not talking about which country that's from. I think it's okay the way they talk. We're not. We don't grow up in the same house. Do we? No, but they. So you're just. You're picking up linguistic rhythms from your parents? No, I'm not. I don't sound nothing like my parents. Well, but I can tell when I listen to radio. Strangely aggressive. Exchange this. I understand the question, but if I had grown up in your house with your parents, I would sound like you. No, you wouldn't. Well, not necessarily. Well, you might not necessarily sound like my parents. Okay, so if you'd grown up in Newcastle with Geordie parents, you'd sound a bit Geordie? No, not all by Geordie. I'm not talking about. What do you think the answer is then, if it's not? Just no, I don't know, but I think I'm giving you a really good answer, and you're being oddly dismissive of it. Oh, no apologies. No, you don't have to apologize. I didn't mean it like that. What I meant was I can tell on the radio and listen to people, and when they mention where they're from or whatever, and they give a background story, and I think, well, I can't use it. Yeah, but I can as well. I mean, with some callers that there are. There were words that are pronounced a certain way. There are. There are slight accents, there are rhythms of language, but it's obviously been learned. So then the question becomes, where was it learned from? And the answer will be, when you learned language, you learned it from people who have similar intonation. And it will be milder if your parents have, for example, quite strong pakistani accents, they would have been diluted by your exposure to other accents, from other friends and school and even other family members. I don't. I mean, I don't think it's a massive mystery, is it really? Any more than why regional accents exist? This is something I've noticed. No, I agree with you. I'm not. I'm not disagreeing with you. I'm just. I'm surprised you're disagreeing with me about the fairly obvious source of it. No, I'm not. You're breaking it down as where someone's from. From a same country. I'm talking about. No, I'm not. From the house that you come from. And the way the people in your house speak. And the more diluted it gets, the less distinctive it becomes. So you could say asian or black, whereas if you were actually speaking to their parents, you might be able to identify indian or pakistan or bangladeshi or even which caribbean island someone had come from. But it's diluted with each generation. So that somebody listening can just make a much broader guess. Guess where someone's from. You might have a point. Just a bit begrudging, Billy. Why don't they make mouse flavored cat food, eh? I mean, yeah. I mean, yeah. I have no idea. I'm putting. Both questions are on the board. Both questions are on the board. But I think that at least the answer to the second one is going to be pretty, pretty close to what I said. We shall find out. Gary Zenilford. Gary, question or answer? It's a question. James, nice to speak to you. And it's a genuine question that is weirdly related to the last one. You'll see what I mean. I've always wondered the following, you know, when we kind of take the rise out of someone who's French and we say, hello, Jims Maine. It is nast du metieu. I'm wondering, I've always wondered how the French. Sorry, that was terrible. That was really poor. I know, I know. Starts. Do you want some advice on this? Yeah, go on. You need to start with a ha ha. And then you get you in the mood and it gets you in the mood to the. You need that at the beginning. Go on. So I've always wondered, how do the French take the rise out of the English? In other words, do they do it in French but with a kind of a weird sort of pseudo english accent or do they do it with a french accent in English? Do you see what I mean? I think I do. So do they go, oh, I am going up the apples and pears and eating weird bread? Like would they do like try and do a cockney? Usually a cockney accent? Certainly when Americans, when Americans try and do it, they'll usually do australian accent. It'll come out australian. Yeah, I quite like that. You know, they call us roast beefs. Did you know that? Yes, I did that. So that I did know that. Kind of. It's in a similar ballpark, isn't it? I guess, but. But also when they do it, do they sort of say, you know, in French? Oh, I see what you mean. Les poma, le pear. We pons les poivres. Not from gray, if you see what I mean. All right, so do they do an english accent but french language? Yeah, or english language and english accent. You'd have to do the english language and the english accent, wouldn't you? I guess you would. I guess you would. But we don't, when we do that. We don't necessarily. If we don't speak French, if you don't know French. You would do it. I don't know if I need to apologize to any french listeners, but I'm going to cover my back on this one and apologize. I'm very sorry. My huge apologies to french listeners. But no, I like the question. They may not do it. They may be more mature than us. They may not feel the need to poke fun at the fact that we speak differently from the way that they speak. It could be another example of english exceptionalism, but we will find out. Thank you, Gary. 1213 is the time. Bill's in Crawley. Bill, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. Right. Question about dogs. So when puppies are born, they spend the first couple of months with their, with their mother and siblings, and when they reach eight weeks, they get typically rehomed and separated. Right. So what I want to know is if, say, six months down the line and the dog is down the park having a sniff of other dogs. Yeah. Would the puppy recognize, for want of a better word, its mother or its siblings if they were to just. Oh, this will be easy. This will be. This will be easy, won't it? Because we'll have dog breeders or something, or siblings would be interesting because our little dog was. Was quite a fancy one. Needless to say, our little dog was quite a fancy one and we kind of knew where her siblings had gone. And there was one, not a million, when we. The dog came from up north, but there was another purchaser not a million miles away from where we are. So you sort of wonder whether you're going to bump into each other in the park and whether they'd know each other. Sometimes people stay in touch, don't they? Give each other updates and stories on how the dogs are getting pedigrees. You've got the family trees, haven't you? You've got. Oh, this one came from Louis XVIII or something, whatever they call them. I'd be surprised if there wasn't some sort of. I mean, but also, how would you know? We're talking about a species bill, that routinely sniffs the bottoms of complete strangers. So how would they demonstrate recognition of a parent? I think. I reckon there is. There's been some sort of scientific study. Do you reckon that there has been some sort of scientific study? Knowledgeable position? I reckon there's been a study and someone out there is going to know. But how would they, how would they measure it? In the same way that they measure if a monkey recognizes a picture of a banana versus. But do they do that? I don't know, do I? But, I mean. But your poir, it's poi, not poivre, it's Pomat. Poi up the Pomay. Poi. Sorry, I'm going back to the previous question. I wasn't too sure about the question, to be honest. No, I like the question. I like the question. I'm just now I'm wondering about how you would know that the recognition was on a higher level. And I think the bottom sniffing becomes pertinent at this point because they're pretty intimate with complete strangers. Dogs generally. Over to the listener. Over to the listener. Hopefully more than 112 16 is the time you're listening to James Obeys mystery out on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 19 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Whiskers, David tells us, tried to introduce a mouse flavored cat food, but unfortunately the cat responsible for catching the mice kept eating them and was sacked for gross misconduct. That's from David. Wimbledon. I think I bit Dean's head off a little bit too enthusiastically with that question. A bit like a cat with a mouse. So my apologies to Dean. I will put that question back on the. But it's not a proper question, though, is it? Why don't you have mouse flavored cat food? But it got asked and it's. It's. It's impolite of me to be ungrateful for people kind enough to ring in. How do you know from someone's voice the. The ethnicity of their family? Asked Billy. I think I've answered that one, but I've left it on the board in case I haven't. How did the French take the mickey out of the English? Asks Gary, in the way that we do. A sort of alo, allo style accent. A boom. There is a boom. And can a dog recognize its mum? Zero. 345-606-0973 all of those. Olivier. Olivier. There's a clue. I wonder which question Olivier is going to be answering. We shall find out shortly. He's in reading. What would you like to say? Oh, sorry, I rang up. Indeed, about the french question. There you go. Sacre bleu. And so the French, they are far more sophisticated than the English. They are not needing to laugh at the English. The English can laugh at themselves. Well, we're pretty good at it. Getting worse with every passing year. But they must. You must take the mickey out of English. No, absolutely. It does happen. It probably happens less than the English do of the French. Yeah. But yes, there is absolutely a. Can you do it? Would you do it? Can you do it? Le Francais aim. Rigolet of the Anglican. So I don't know what rigolet means. Lafat. Oh, okay. So. But do you do an accent? Do you do like a rubbish cockney accent when you do it? Not particularly Cockney, just a standard british person trying a French, but exaggerated, basically. Yeah. So it's the same as what we do. Pretty much. Pretty much. Slightly the other way around. And not as. Not as often because you're probably not as culturally fragile as we are. Round of applause. Oh, qualification is French. Even I can work that out. Qualification round of applause for Olivier. I always think of Dick Van Dyke when I think of rubbish cockney accents. Everyone does that, right, whatever your age is. Because even if you've watched the more modern iterations of Mary Poppins with Lin Manuel Miranda, you'd still. You'd still be familiar with, uh, Dick Van Dyke doing it. Uh, Andrew's endorser. Andrew, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. And so I'm wondering, uh, which if any of our internal organs are able to feel pain? What? Wow. A bit of a strange one, because I. I remember learning that the brain cannot feel pain. There's no pain receptors in the brain, so that's why you can do and brain surgery and that kind of thing. Really. I've not heard that before. Yeah. I mean, a kidney stone, you know about that, but that's. Yeah. And like a stomach ache and pancreatitis, like, you do get pain in those areas, but I'm wondering if it. Heart attack, actual sac. Never felt one, so I don't know what that's like. They really hurt. But I'm wondering, is that the muscles around the organ feeling the pain in, or is it the actual organ? Is it pain receptors in the organ itself? It's like. No, I mean, there's probably going to be lots of different answers for lots of different organs, aren't there? Well, that would be an answer in itself. Can any organs can? Well, I think. I think you must be. I mean, a kidney stone. That's not going to be the muscles. It's in the middle of the kidney. That's why you're in so much pain. I don't know why I'm speaking so confidently about a matter, a biological matter, but then. Yeah, I don't. Is the brain just completely unique? And I know that's another question, but no. Okay. Pain. Do organs feel pain? And you can answer that yes or no, can't you? You only need one to exist for the affirmative to be established. I like that. What have you got planned, Andrew? Nothing in particular. Just kind of idle kill. I don't want this call ending up on crime watch. We have to keep your eyes peeled for that. Well, there you go. Do your eyes feel your eyes? Ah, your eyes feel pain? Oh, there you go. Yeah. Do they? Yeah. Well, come here, I'll poke you true in the eye. I'm thinking more internal organs. Oh, changing your story now. No one said internal organs. Also, I bet the back of your eye had hurt as well if I poked you there. Well, that may be the answer. The eye we may have got there. The eyes have it. Oh. Oh, this is poetry, this call. We've not only got the question, we've answered it while bantering. And at the end I can throw in a the eyes have it, but I'll leave it on the board because I'm feeling oddly modest today. Carl's in Exeter. Carl. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. And it's about the puppy. Oh. We've got an eight year old poodle who's with her mum for 13 weeks before we picked her up. We live 100 miles away from her mum, and we did irenion. After about six months. She recognized her mum absolutely instantly. Ran up, made a huge. How do I know she ran up and made it? So she cries and whimpers and jumps up and down when we see her. She ran over to her mum, licked her, cried and whimpered and everything like that. We've met her twice again on beaches, once in north Wales. And not by accident. No, by accident. We were in north Wales. Her breeders. The breeders, that thing were in north Wales at the time. We were walking along the beach and she made a beeline for another dog and just went bonkers over it. We walked up and it was Arthur and Glynis who were her breeders. Well, not Arthur and clinic, the poodle breeders. Sorry. But she made an absolute bee lie. She saw it. She loves other poodles. Anyway, she made a beeline, but she just went completely bonkers. And she whimpers and cries and everything. When she sees somebody she recognizes and hasn't seen for anybody. And she does that both with the breeders and with her mum. So I came home afterwards and I went home normal. And there's a few studies that show that they get their smell and they understand their smell and their mum's bark for years afterwards and think. So she's just come up to me and give me a cuddle now. Talking about it. Poppy, is it? Poppy's my poodle. Yeah. And she's eight years old. Gorgeous little thing. How about. Or not that little, actually. How about siblings? She sort of knew her siblings, but just in a playful way. Right, but you haven't had any reunions yet with siblings. Months. We did that six months. And she sort of played with them, but she might have played with a fellow poodle of the same age in the same way, but the. She plays with every poodle she finds. Yeah, but she's absolutely gorgeous. So the siblings, not so much, because I think the smell is different by the time they get there. But her mum, she was over the moon to see her mum, so I came home and looked and. Yeah, there have been studies on it. You're on. Round of applause for Carl. Oh, thank you. Qualifications? There have been studies on it and also, obviously, poppy being the case study. I nearly said the guinea pig then, but that would have been confusing for Keith. David's in Hawick in Scotland. David, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. What gives England the right to the national anthem when it comes to sport? I mean, that's a bit controversial for mystery. David, you brought, you know, you're bringing in. This is the kind of thing that the police have got a very low tolerance threshold for, and they're not going to. Going to accept this kind of. What, so you mean when the United Kingdom is performing as the likes of the rugby and the football and things like that, how Scotland would be. Flower of Scotland, England gets the national anthem. Oh, I see. So why is there not a specific song? Don't they do Jerusalem at the rugby? No. Are you sure? No, of course. You sure? No, of course you are. So in a way, there should be four or at least three anthems for home nation ties. That's right. And then we all revert to God save the king when we're playing as one team. Yeah. Like at the Olympics and that. I don't. That's a good art. That's a good question, actually. I mean, I presume it's just we just like big brother syndrome. We're the biggest part of the union, so we will have the national anthem. Thank you very much. But it is odd, isn't it, that. Well, I mean, it's anti scottish, of course, the national anthem. It's got that verse that no one thinks. Yeah, but it's still there, was there when we started singing it, so. Yeah, so it was the english national anthem and it's been adopted by the other home nations. Yeah, maybe. Yeah. Not without. No one asked you. We just. We just. We just adopted you. We just said. Right. That's the anthem. I wonder what that. I mean, that was a book about. No, that was the union flag. Someone must have done a book about the national anthem. I'd read a book about national anthems. The story of the french national anthem is fascinating. I'll find out for you. Or at least I will do my best. David. How come. Yeah, how come when, if England are playing Scotland, England sing the national anthem for the whole of the UK? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Should I squeeze in Simmy, or do I need a little bit longer than is available to get the full force of that? Is David still there? Yeah. How badly did I dispronounce the name that you called from? Terrible. Yeah. It's Hoik. Right. Yep. Yep. Sorry. Why didn't you correct me, man? Just pleasantly, that was all right. How am I ever going to learn if people let me carry on making mistakes like this? This is true. Yeah. Sorry. Hoik. Hoyk. Not Haywick. No, sorry. It's okay. Not a problem. No, it is a pie. You know, I'm a perfectionist, so it's appalling, really. It's a bit of. I like to think of myself as being a London exceptionalist, but I am on stuff like that. Let's get the headlines now from Amelia Cox mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1233. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions still in need of answers. Why? I sound more enthusiastic when I say this. Why? Why isn't there any mouse flavored cat food? How can you tell what ethnicity someone is or what ethnicity their family is just from their voice? And it probably is a bit more than accent. But what we've done, the french one, the dog one, was lovely. I've just broken the habit of a lifetime and tweeted an animal film because someone sent me a lovely picture of a six month reunion between puppy and mother, which I thought you might like to see. I think the organs and pain question is getting worse with every passing moment, because skin is an organ as well, isn't it? So, obviously, skin, it might be your biggest organ, Keith, but obviously you can feel pain in your skin. And the national anthem question was very nice. Simi's in Croydon. Simi, question or answer? Hi, James. I have an answer and bear with me. I'm a first time caller, but I've been listening since I was, like, 15. I'm 34 now. Think I have been here that long? How terrifying. Oh, my. Well, I'll get that. I'll get the hang of it one day, simmy, I promise you. You're doing great, James. You always do. Thank you. So I have an answer to the question about ethnicity, and on the phone, I am in the same boat as Billy because I can hear it. I come from a south asian background. My parents don't moved here when they were, like, five, so I'm almost different generation. I think the difference is that we hear it because it sounds familiar. Traditionally a lot as well. We live in extended family, so I grew up with my grandmother. We kind of stick together that way. And my grandmother would have learned English with an indian accent, and if she heard me speak English with my very Croydon accent, she wouldn't pick it up as easily and she wouldn't hear it so often. We have different tones and different nuances in the way that we speak. We have heavier sounds in our, say, D's and our G's. Yes. Which makes it easier for them to understand. And inevitably, what happens is how we speak English at home, which we would and we do, is different to perhaps how I speak English with you. That's code changing. It's code switching. Yes, code switching. Could you tell when Billy rang in? Could you tell that Billy was asian even before she explained her questions straight away? And I wonder. And she presumably can tell that you are. So it is. It is a form of sonic osmosis, isn't it? You're absorbing and repeating without even consciously being aware of it, because I wouldn't know that you were or that Billy was, but you would just recognize it in each other. Oh, we can hear it straight away, just. Just because it's. It's so familiar and. And it just shows that actually we haven't. If we can tell the difference, it just shows that I don't speak English the same way as perhaps my colleague Katie does. That's what's born here in Bromley. So we still do have a difference, but again, it's who we've learned. Like, you wonder whether the Irish can do it. I wonder whether second generation irish people can sort of pick up on certain things from. I reckon the concept's the same. I would have thought so. I mean, especially, you know, it can be a very strong accent as well. And the second generation Irish, although they speak with an english accent, have picked up little idiosyncrasies, linguistic idiosyncrasies that they deploy when they're talking to their parents. Oh, I love that. That's a lovely answer. I mean, you've never got any qualifications though, have you? I'm just brown, James. Out of applause. It does now. Thank you. 37 is the time. So more than accent, which is what I went for, timbre and rhythms and it makes perfect sense, but it does come from the parents. So I still, I still stand by the idea that Billy was unduly dismissive of my answer. Matt's in Chesterfield. Matt, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. So the other day I bought my daughter a dead leaf mantis, which is really, really small and quite expensive. How much? And we started, well, quite expensive for an insect it was twelve quid. It's expensive for an insect it is. So therefore we start talking about what happens if it gets ill. And the question is therefore, what is the smallest type of animal that your average sort of high street vet will work on? Oh, that's. I mean, to be honest, if you're going to pay, they'll probably, they'll probably work on it. You never meet a poor vet these days, do you? Can't believe how much they. So they'd probably have a crack at anything if you were picking up the bill. A tiny little fish you can buy medicine for, can't, you can buy stuff to put in the water. You could probably buy that from a vet. But what do we mean? Do we mean hands on? Well, we discussed fish as well. Yeah. As part of the conversation. How would you operate on a fish? But it was, you know, cats and dogs, mammals and birds. So I presume you could take your parrot in, but. Oh, definitely. Maybe not just size, but sort of genus of animal. Could you, could you take it? Could you take a dead leaf mantis into the vets? Well, I'd probably just buy another one, to be honest. Twelve quid, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, well, we're just. A vet can tell us. I don't know if there's going to be a definitive answer to this, is there? Because you could just turn up tomorrow with a tinier, even tinier with a ladybird and just, oh, it's lost a leg. Can you make him a little splint or something like that? Yeah, I don't know if it's going to be definitive. I mean, there will be arachnid specialist vets, but I suppose to try and get definitive is, you know, my local Dronfield vet practice. What's the smallest you've done? What's the smallest you've done? I like it. I can't hear the word dromfield without thinking of a lovely woman that I was in a play with when I was 16 years old. It's quite bizarre. I don't know why, but the word dromfield, always, always, she was one of the nicest people. Anyway, I will find out for you, Josh. Thanks, James. You're on, mate. Mind how you go. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. What's the smallest animal that a vet will deal with? Or creature, really, because I don't know what the technical term would be. A dead leaf mantis. That's quite exciting. You know, I don't know if you've ever looked one up, but they look like leaves. It's a clue in the name. Susan's in Manchester. Susan, question or answer? Hi, James. It's melancholy. Yes. I wanted to just expand a bit on the question about how you can tell someone's ethnicity from their voice. I think everything you've said so far is definitely a contributor, but your voice is also dependent on how your mouth is sized and shaped. So a black person or an asian person has very different physiology to a white person, for example. In what way? Therefore, your mouth is different. Really? Yeah. So it's to do with the size of your mouth cavity, the size of your teeth, the arrangement of your teeth, possibly even skull resonances. But that's getting a bit beyond my expertise, to be honest. That will be a part of. So it's a big pie, this, with lots and lots of slices, isn't it? And that could be one of those things. Chip in. Yeah. Oh, I love that. Qualifications. I'm an acoustic consultant and a bit of a nerd. Of course you are. Round of applause for Susan. Thank you. Oh, I love that. Of course it's gonna. That's gonna have relevance, pertinence as well. I like this as well. From Richard. My name is Richard. I've got some very good french mates. I go sailing with them every year up the coast of Brittany where they have a boat. I am subject to a constant torrent of abuse for being english, including the classic roast beef. But now I also get called a dirty Brexiter, or quite simply, Brexit. I don't know why I do it, but could you give them a shout anyway? Miguel, Sam, Jacques and Etienne. They're not going to be listening, are they? Highly unlikely, but there it is. So Brexit is now a term of abuse when french people are abusing english people, and, frankly, who can blame them? 1242 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We need some answers. Come on. I can't do all the work here. So we've done that one. Why is there no mouse flavored cat food? Maybe that's not a daft question. And you can humiliate me while also winning a mystery round of applause. And the chance of winning a mystery out. Board game. Organs and pain. I think that is a dark question, not least when you remember that skin is an organ. Why do the English get to sing the overall national anthem at home? I think they do. Land of hope and glory at the Commonwealth gate. I'm imagining this or Jerusalem or something. But David's question is about if England plays Scotland, why do England sing the song that is theoretically the scottish national anthem as well? Smallest creature that a vet, a high street vet, can operate on? And room for a couple more. Josh is in Mill Hill. Josh, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why do we need to know where things are made? So, as an example, in front of me, I've got a notebook that says made in Italy, toys are made in China, or clothing is made in wherever. What is the legal requirement for knowing what country items are made from? I think I know this, and I wouldn't have been able to answer it before Brexit. Intrigued? Well, because of trade agreements. So if I'm bringing something into the country that was made in a country with which we don't have a trade agreement, then there are frictions in place or free trade agreements or even frictionless movements. So if it's made in France and it's moving into Spain, then it can move absolutely cleanly. If it's made in China and it's moving from France to Spain, that doesn't quite work, does it? Because it can move absolutely cleanly as well. But I think the broad thrust. But the broad thrust of my answer is correct. It will be trade agreement. No, but that's because the trade agreements between France and Spain accommodate it. But elsewhere, if there's anywhere in the world where it's going to matter, and there is, then you might as well stick it on everything you make. It might even be WTO rules. Possibly. Why do I need to know that? As a consumer, it's not for you. It's not for your body. You might care because you might want to buy british, but it's for the trade. It will be for the traders. Trading agreements, cut customs duties, tariffs, friction, all that sort of thing has to be. Okay, I'll give that one to you. I guess I'm going to take that one. Ask me what my qualifications are. Qualifications? Other than being radio presenter? No, ask me properly. Ask me what my qualifications are. I've never been wrong about brexit in any way, shape or form. Give yourself a round of applause for that one, James. Thank you very much. I'm probably wrong about that, though. It is coming up to quarter to one, mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1248 is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Well, it's long past. Nearly behind us, actually. I better hurry up. Susan's in London Bridge. Susan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, yeah, the cat food that's made out of mice. Pardon? The cat. Why is there no mouse flavored cat food? Yeah, so I'm looking at. I'm looking at a tin of it right now. A tin of mouse flavored cat food. Yeah, it says 100% mouse. It's from. It's from Germany. It's like. No, it's serious. It's deadly serious. Especially for the mice. Yeah, well, yeah, I think. Well, when you think about it, they breed mice, don't they, for, like all sorts of things, but they breed. The. Breed mice for. To give to reptiles and stuff. Yeah, like they do. I think what I think the reasoning behind it is, like when cats eat, you know, cats eat, like mice in the wild. And what your caller said about they don't chase down a cow when they eat the little mice in the wild. I think they eat all their sort of internal organs and the heart and the liver and the little bones. Well, they often don't even bother doing that, do they? I mean. Yeah, that's true. I think the real answer to the reason why I was slightly impatient with Dean's question is because I spend a little bit more time than I would like getting rid of mice and their remains after they've fallen into the clutches of my cat. And I know for a fact that if the cat had a hundred mice, it would still prefer a lovely bowl of the ridiculously expensive cat food that misses O'Brien treats them to on her. So. So. And also imagine the fuss and the fiddle in filleting a mouse. Well, I know it's not like you just get down the abattoir, sweep the floor, and you've got a. You got a wheelbarrow full of lamb. Cat food or cow? Cat food. But mice, how many mice would you have to deal with to fill it? So they make it in. Jerry, does the cat like. How much does it cost? I bet it's expensive. It was like. It. It was. I feel so stupid. So it's four quid a tin. God, it's not cheap. And I gave it to them. I gave it to the cats. Cheap. No, it's not cheap. Come on. Come on. That deserves. That deserves cheap. Cheap. It doesn't. That deserves more. Doesn't know I'm still smarting from. From spending four quid and giving it to them. And then they turn their noses up at it. Right? They did. They sneered at me. I bet they did. I would. If you serve me mouse. And there's part of the answer as well. It's nice. Yeah. Yeah. And I felt like such a mug, but I had to ring in and embarrass myself. Well, you get a round of applause. So the answer to Dean's question is, they do make it, but cats don't really like it. Except possibly german cats. Maybe german cats like it. Maybe germ cats have. It's an acquired taste. Could be like curry versed. But we. But we know it's not cheap. I'm not. I'm not letting that go. Qualifications. She's got a tin of it. What more can you ask? Have a round of applause. Yay. Thank you. Jessica is in, Kingsley. Oh, big day on Sunday, Jessica. Oh, is it? I didn't know. What? Are you joking me? Big day? What do you mean? Kingsleyn versus Kitaminsta Harriers in the playoff semi final for the National League north. Oh, that's not my knowledge. She took it. I cooked. This is the biggest area of knowledge. Football. Sorry? The biggest thing that's happened to Lenin, probably since it got the royal charter. Oh, well, I'll keep an eye out for that. Yeah, all right. I can't come up. Too busy writing my flipping book. Otherwise I'd be on the train up to. Up to Lynn like a bat out of hell. Question or answer, Jessica? I've got some knowledge about one of the answers. Come on, then. I like your modesty. I like your natural modesty. I hope it's contagious. I could do with a bit of that. Carry on about pain in the organs of the body. Yes, because I've nursed palliative care patients who known to have organ pain. And it's not because you. So some organs don't have many nociceptors which are pain receptors. However, anybody, any area can have pain if it's got inflammation because the body, then there's chemicals created from inflammation like crusty gandhin and they create pain. So the. Any inflammation in any organ will cause you pain chemicals. So it doesn't mean they've got pain receptors because the brain's got less, but you can get pain from inflammation. And what about kidney stones? I don't know why I said that. I just felt at the time it was a very pertinent contribution to the conversation. Yeah. I'm not particularly knowledgeable about that sort of mechanism of pain. I just know. Yeah. The other thing I thought about it was with the brain and people say, well you can have surgery on the brain, it doesn't hurt. Well actually you're under conscious sedation so you're receiving sedatives and pain relief anyway. So although you're awake and talking, you're not completely going to be in pain because you've got these chemicals and this treatment going on, blood in your system. So you do. And I mean, if we were going to go binary on it like yes or no, the skin is an organ and the skin. But that does have a lot of nausea, septors, so that's known to have a lot of pain receptors. Exactly. Some organs have less. But do any organs have none at all? Not that I was aware of. And even if they did have none at all, if they got inflamed, it would still hurt because of the inflammatory chemicals, the chemicals being released regardless of the receptors. Yeah. Brady Kinins, phytocheins. Yeah. And that's a beautiful answer. Qualifications. I know you mentioned it, but let's formalise. And I've had to study things, you know, when pain's presenting in front of you, you have to study what's going on so you know how to treat it. Good for you. And I hope it's the king's Lynn fans that need painkillers on Sunday. Not the kid of Mister Harris fans. Jessica. I'll keep an eye out for that. Who knows? Round of applause for Jessica, please. Thank you. Thank you. A lovely answer. 1254 is the time. I'm getting quite a lot of abuse now, which I'm comfortable with. I'm very thick skinned for suggesting that mice go cheap. Now there's two things you need to know about this cheep. Cheep is a perfectly reasonable depiction of the noise that a mouse makes. You might more commonly associate it with, for example, a canary or something like that. But I bet you that in other, you know, the French don't say cock a doodle do, they say cockari co, coco Rico. I'm 100% certain, and I will brook no quibbling, that somewhere in the world, the noise that humans make when they're doing an impression of a mouse is cheap, cheap, cheap. And I'm pretty sure I've encountered that on my travels. I'm 99% sure that I have encountered a cheap noise being routinely used as a noise for mouse makes. So I'm having that. It was a brilliant joke, frankly. I liked it. What was the name of the lovely lady that answered? I've stopped writing down names. I'm not gonna be able to give away the board game at this point. Mouse cat food. What's the name of the mouse cat food lady? She's not gonna be wanted, not gonna want to be known as that for the rest of her life, is she? So say again, Susan. Of course it was. And then Jessica is in King's limb with the organs. Who am I gonna give it to this week? It's a tough one. Ettie's in kentish town. Ettie, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on. National anthems. England doesn't have dibs on God save the Queen. So at football, Northern Ireland also sings God Save the Queen. So when England played Northern Ireland in qualifiers last year, that was in the women's game. Only God save the queen was played twice? Yep. Oh, that's brilliant. You're a hundred percent sure about this? 100 million% sure. I went in 2016. Oh, I love it. Were in the men's football, in the euros, and I went to a game, they played it. And you were saying about the Commonwealth Games. England sing Jerusalem there. That's because it's just. I guess it's a different protocol. No one sings God save the queen at the Commonwealth Games. Maybe that's because all of the Commonwealth countries, all of the home nations, always compete differently. So it's just the rugby, then, really, as far as we can tell, where we have this division that David described. Well, in the rugby, obviously, Ireland play as one team. There is no Northern Ireland, so they wouldn't be able to. My suspicion would be that for the rugby, if Scotland or Wales wished to sing God save the Queen, they would have as much of a right to as England. So you would either end up with both of the countries singing it or neither. So it would either be about the football or the. That's an incredibly comprehensive answer. What are your qualifications? Watching sport. Fanatical sports. I mean, you think you're a big sports fan. I bet you're not going to King's Lynn on Sunday, are you? I'm not going to Kingsley and I should be listening captively on the radio. BBC Hereford and was to probably have it. Or certainly BBC East Anglia. 551 tickets we've sold already for that game. And you know, that's astonishing on the road for a club like kiddie. Round of applause for Etty, please. Very nicely done. And no, thank you. And Susan Hounslow. Sue. Oh, here is. Here's the thing. What's the name of the mouse? Sue, can you remember the name of the mouse in the Narnia books? No. Reapy cheap. Say the last syllable of that for me, will you? In your own time, sue. Sorry? The name of the mouse. I don't know. No, it's reapy cheap. Repeat. Cheap. Yes, thank you. Cheap, cheap, cheap. So stop texting me with squeak, squeak, squeak. It doesn't make sense. Question or answer, sue? Answer. Carry on. Okay, so the reason products are labeled with the origin is to make sure that they get the right preference. Preference is where you have a trade agreement with other nations. And this all comes under WTO rules as well. Thank you very much. If you have an agreement in place and the label is there, you can identify the origin. Yep. The agreement may allow rules of origin. Rules of origin? Yep. It allows you to bring in your goods free of duty, but you have to pay VAT and you can still bring your goods in. But if you don't have an agreement, then you pay the full duty rate, which makes your product more expensive. Yeah. And you still. No country would ever do that, would they? Well, you said earlier you were doing an example of bringing chinese origin goods via France or Germany. They would still have to provide origin because the current agreement only allows for european origin goods to come in for as free of duty. Yes, but passing chinese origin, Germany or France, you will still pay the normal duty rates for chinese goods. Indeed you would. Qualifications over 30 years of experience working in international trade and that includes customs as well. Beautifully done. Big, big round of applause. Extra big round of applause for sue, please. Beautiful answer. And that's it for. I don't know. I'm going to give it to Susan, actually, because she's got. She's four quid down on the mouse flavored cat food, so this at least will put her up on the whole day. So thank you. I think that's fair, isn't it? If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player where you can rewind live radio or enjoy the whole show. Podcast. All our shows are there, all our video clips as well. And you can rewind live radio on global player. So download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Swabber it with you at four. Fogarty with you now, Emily, thank you very much. O'Brien.