Ice...what's that about?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien, three minutes after twelve. A mystery hour is a promise. This is the only hour of the week where I have to talk across this rising crescendo in the background, you know, now that we've rejigged our. What's it called, Keith? What's the correct phrase? We've streamlined the junctions, lads. Oh, yeah. But this junction remains unstreamlined, which means I have to sort of cunningly choose my words while keeping it no use to me. Actually, I have to use my ears to calculate precisely the point at which this rousing crescendo will reach its conclusion. And that is the moment at which I invite you to ring in for your weekly dose of illumination, elucidation, education and general magnificence. And it hasn't arrived yet. Let me remind you of the phone number 034-5606 how did I used to do this every hour? It's absolutely infernal. Zero. 345-606-0973 I am James O'Brien and this is mystery hour. If you've got a question that needs an answer, give me a ring. No, I haven't been overdoing the LEM sip, in case you're wondering. I'm just generally in rather good spirits at the moment. And thank you for all the kind words about the little book award that I picked up last night at the House of parliament. I do appreciate your compliments. However, mystery Hour is a lot more important than any baubles that may have been bestowed upon me by. By the Houses of Commons and lords. We are offering you an opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you have a little question in the back of your mind that you know must have an answer, but you're damned if you know what it is. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then I'm with you, Matt. Actually, Matt's just tweeted, say, favorite time of the week. Absolutely. If you know the answer to a question that somebody else asks, then you know what to do. Shall we just crack on? Actually, we did one last week, didn't we? It was the week before that we got pushed into touch by Sajid Javid's incredibly selfish decision to resign just before mystery hour started. I think we could all agree that a better class of politicians is needed. We want them to reserve their resignations until Sheila Fogarty gets here. And then we could have completed mystery hour unmolested. But here we are. So let's crack on. Five minutes after twelve is a time. Alison is in Bexley heath with either a question or an answer. Alison, question, please carry on. I was watching Call of the Wild this week. Well, the Jack London. Yes, the film with Harrison Ford. Oh, yeah. And I thought all those people went up to Alaska and pulled that yellow metal out of the ground. Who decided it was valuable? Do you want to know something funny? What? This is actually the question with which mystery started. Oh, how funny. I mean, genuinely asked on air. Everyone thought I was stupid. It wasn't quite what you said. The question was, why is gold valuable right now? I just wondered, well, who was the first person saying, oh, that yellow metal is really desirable and valuable? Yeah. I mean, we'll try and get an answer for you, but that is where it all began. That is where it all began. Why? Yeah, I can't remember it, though. I'm nearly 50, mate. You can't expect my memory to operate on that. And congrats on your book award. Oh, you're very kind. Thank you. I shall get you an answer to this. Who first decided that gold was worth money? Is a different question from why is gold valuable? But it may admit a very similar answer. I mean, as I understand it, it's the softness that meant you could tool it and therefore wear it. And we like shiny stuff. That is what the entire economy of this planet is built upon. We like shiny stuff and gold can be turned into pendants. But you probably want more than that. I don't know why I've got the Egyptians or the Assyrians bubbling away in the back of my brain, but we shall find out for Alison, who first decided that gold was worth money? Zero. 345-606-0973 and a special prize today for the first person who can give me the statistic that has something to do with swimming pools and describes the total amount of gold ever discovered on this earth. Dave's in Romford. Dave, question or answer? I have a question for you. Please, James. Carry on. David. In a commercial aircraft, why does the pilot always sit on the left? Um, I was hoping that I might drag that one up from the memory banks as well, actually. So the reason I asked this, I did a flight simulator last week. Oh, yeah. And I asked the pilot why and he couldn't tell me. I think it's got something to do with ships, but that doesn't sound very plausible. Now, that I've actually said it out loud. The controls are more or less all the same. There's only one on the left hand side of where the captain sits. You can steer the plane. The first officer can't steer the plane from his side on the right hand side. And the pilot couldn't tell me no. All right, you're on. No. Sometimes with questions like that, something pops into my brain. If I manage to sort of burble on for long enough and keep the questioner on the line. But it's not going to happen. I can tell. I'll find out for you, hopefully. Why do pilots, captains always sit on the left on commercial airlines? And who decided that gold was valuable first? Paul's in. No, he's not. Well, he is, but we're going to. We're going to Horsham, because Jane is there. Jane, question or answer? Question. Carry on. We've had a lot of weather recently and the forecast is. Sorry. We certainly have. We have, yes. And they quite accurately predict the wind speed. How do they predict the gustiness? Yeah, all right. Do they. Do they tell us dust levels? Yes, they say winds of 40 miles an hour with gusts up to 60. Do they? Dusts up to 60? Yes. With a g? Yes. Yes. My producer thought you said dust. Oh, no, dust with a g. So that changes the question slightly, doesn't it? No. I mean, not for you. You're not part of this slightly surreal experience. You're merely an unwitting contributor to it. But the gust. So they can predict the wind levels? Yes. And you're comfortable with that, but you want to know how they predict the gust levels? That's right, yeah. Well, aren't they just measuring them where they're currently happening and then where the forecast is? What maps its movement from where they're currently happening to where we are? Possibly. I don't know. But behind this is, I don't know what causes Gustiness. Gustiness? Well, beans. Beans aren't a great start, are they? Generally speaking. Sorry. It's pathetic, really, isn't it? Jane, I shall do my best to get you an. How do meteorologists predict gusts zero? 345-606-0973 why do captains and commercial aircraft always sit on the left in the cockpit? And who decided that gold was, or indeed should be valuable? Ten minutes after twelve is the time and Paul is in Chawney. Paul, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please, carry on. Uh, down in Cornwall over half term, uh, playing pool. That's my eight year old son. Very nice. And a question that I'd thought about years ago but never actually got the answer to. Uh, why does the white ball go down and then go to a different mate? Come on, use your noodle. Well, I don't know, because I looked at the balls and I thought, well, there must be a different weight or something like that. But then I just. I don't know, I couldn't figure it out. It is four years I've been trying to think of a question for mystery. I love it, but I think I did this as a tina. I'm pretty sure the white ball is slightly smaller than all the other balls. Yeah, possibly. I just. I couldn't see. I was looking at the balls, the colours in the way, and I couldn't see a difference. So, for people not familiar with pub pool, the cue ball end of the table is the end at which the white ball will appear if you accidentally pot it. Whereas all the other balls will either collect in that. If you're paying for it, they'll collect in the tank, won't they, where you. Where you put your money in, or if you've got a freebie, they'll all go down the other end. You very rarely come across a pool table where all the balls end up in the same pool. So I'll put it on the list, but I can't go definitive because I can't fully remember. But I'm sure at college, I played a lot of pool at college. Why? I didn't get a very good degree. I'm sure the white ball was marginally. If you put a book on it or something like that, you'd see a slight gradient and the white ball was marginally smaller than all the others or possibly the other way around. But that's not an answer, is it? I wouldn't take that. And there's no reason why you should. No, I definitely wouldn't. Quite right. Quite right. Get back in your box, O'Brien, and bring me a proper answer. Can we find out, please, why does the white. What is the mechanism within a pub pool table that sees the white ball returned to the players while the coloured balls are retained? Uh, 1212 is the time. Greg's in Stevenage. Greg, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Greg. The question is, why does a dog, when it goes for a wee, the weeds really, really yellow, regardless of how hydrated it is. Whereas in humans, our kind of colour changes. It's a bit icky, that, mate. Well, the other question was to do with we as well, but okay. Oh, no. We all need a hobby. Are we sure it's true? Well, only because my dog, he drinks loads, but whenever he goes out for a wee. So this question at the moment is specific to a single dog in Stevenage. Well, no, I mean, all dogs. My wife is a dog walker who I'm going to meet now, and that's a dog in the bathroom that's so easily amused. I shall try. I think I recognize what you say. I think our dog does that as well. I don't know. I said we'll try and find out. Why are. When dogs. Why is dog wheat always so dark yellow, even if they're drinking loads of water? Mayer is in Hounslow. Mayor. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. My question is watching the football highlights this morning. My question is, why do sportsmen or women put their hands on their heads when they miss? When they miss? Yeah. Okay. Oh, I quite like that. Yeah. I've got. I think it's. They cover their faces, don't they? More than put their hands on their head? Yeah, exactly. They cover their faces. They cover their head. So it's shame. It's shame and embarrassment. It's like a natural. Yeah. It's a gut reaction to embarrassment. You're hiding. You're trying to hide your mean. It is. That's what it is. Why the head? Why their face? Why not touch your toes? Because if I cover my face, you can't see me, and I can pretend that the thing that has just happened hasn't happened. What about the head, then? What do you mean? The head? They put their hands on the head, doesn't it? Yeah, but then their arms are covering their face. No, they're not. Yeah, they are. No one, after missing a goal, puts their hands on their head like. Like that. No, they don't. They do it like this. I can't see you. What, what are all these cameras for in the studio, then? No, they put their hands on their head and they're like, out of shame. But I just want to know why that reaction is like that. Yeah, so do I. Now you're on. Why do, why do they do that? Anybody know? What? Do we need an evolutionary psychologist? And, of course, as many people have pointed out, the ball in the pool. Well, actually, no, we'll wait for a definitive answer. I didn't make a massive fool of myself. Just a little, tiny. 112 15 lBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1218 is the time. There's something for everybody here who decided that gold was valuable. Why do pilots, captains on commercial flights always sit on the left in the cockpit. How do meteorologists know how to, or how do they make their predictions of gusts? Why? I mean, I do know this one and I was sort of right, I just got it the wrong way around. But, you know, there's a round of applause waiting for someone. Why do pool tables deliver the white ball back to players while retaining the colored balls until the next round? Why is dogwee always so dark yellow and white? Do footballers sports people, after a failure, put their hands on their head? I think we're going to struggle with that last one, to be honest. But, hey, nothing ventured, nothing gained. Bradley is in Gillingham. Bradley, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Okay, yeah. On a motorbike sidecar. The sidecar is on the right? Yes. You're driving around here, join whatever. And then I decide I want to go to France for the moment. Sidecar. Does that mean that the sidecar has to go on the left side of the bike? Well, why would it? Well, because of safety, I suppose. I don't know. I don't want to offend you, mate, but. Oh, you're going to want you. I don't know. That's up to you. You can't give offence. You can only take offence according to the free speech wobbies. You could have found this out. I don't think this is a very. I mean, first of all, it is, James, do you know the answer to it? Yeah. What? It's obvious. Well, it's not, is it? Well, it is. I know. You can drive a right hand car over in France, you know, and have a car, because. Why don't they have to change the steering wheel round? No, but I'm on about the panel. I'm asking you, why don't they. Why don't they have to change the steering wheel round? Well, I don't know. Well, let's work it out, shall we? No, I'm saying the sidecar. No, let's work out. Why don't you, when you go to France, why don't you have to change your steering wheel onto the other side of your car? No, but I'm on. It's about. Because. That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking you, when we go to France, why don't we have to move our steering wheel onto the other side of our car? Because you don't have to. Why not? Because it's a legal requirement. Why not? Melvinson Bilaricki. Melvin Quest. Oh, no, he's still there. No, mate, the answer is. I mean, I've been to France, I've seen vintage motorcycles with sidecars on. So that's why it is a stupid question, but no offence intended. Melvin's in Billericki. Melvin, question or answer? Answer for you, James. Carry on, mate. Why do pilots say on the left? I always told this captain. Sorry, I always told this many, many years ago, and the reason I was given was because, well, I was told 85% to 90% of people are right handed and engine management controls and any insurance that need adjusting would be on the right hand side. Yeah. And that was purely for ease. Yeah, of course it was. That's it. I mean, it makes perhaps sometimes it's Occam's razor, isn't it? Of course it is. So you've got all your gubbins in the middle, so your right hand is going to be favoured. So you'd sit on the left. And I must admit, I haven't checked. 85% to 90% of people are right handed. It's more than half. Yes. I've got 10% far away in the back of my brain for some reason. Let's do a quick check in the studio. Anyone left handed? No, you're not. Why would you lie about that? Are you serious? We've worked together for months. I'd never noticed before. Well, anyway, 25% in this room. But that proves absolutely nothing. Melvin. Qualifications? Uh, private pilot, hobby pilot, that's now, you know, Jones, the engineer's taken up flying. Is he really? Yeah, he's getting. Getting quite good at it. I think he's either about to or he's just done his first ever solo flight. Oh, well, well done. He's excited. Yeah. I'm very proud of him. Round of applause for Melvin, please. My life is complete. Your life is. It's completely 22 minutes after. Tom must have already joined the mile high club. Dave's in crew. Dave, question or answer? I've got an answer. Thanks, James. Carry on. David, it's the pool question. The white ball. I think you were more or less spot on, but I just wanted to give a so called expert opinion on it. Go on. Yeah. All the object balls are two inches in diameter and the white ball is one and seven, eight inch, simple as that. So it just fits down a hole that the other balls don't fit then? Yeah. The balls go past this little gap and all the object balls go across the gap and the white ball falls down there. It's like a little pit and it comes out at a different end. Qualifications? I'm a former professional pool player and I used to play for England as well. Are you serious? Yeah. Why do you knock? What have you given up? Oh, the family age. I'm in the mid forties now and it's not so much a young man's game as it used to be, but it's pretty much, you know, I'm still pretty good. I do coaching now. Why, as a lad? Why Paul, not snooker, then? I know you probably play both to quite a high level, but most brits would go down the snooker route, wouldn't they, really? Yeah. Well, I grew up in a pub, my dad owned a pub. And so from the age of. Well, until I could stand up, I was playing pool in the pub. And then when I got older, I got quite good and then I got hooked on it. My big brother and my dad played pool to a high level, so I just followed in their footsteps. What's your greatest honor? Play for England and being a pro game. I'm not like world champion or anything like that. I'm pretty good. But you know how many people play for England any one time? A squad of 16 at any one time, and that changes every year, so, you know. But it's not. It doesn't swap 16 for 16 every year. Some people hang around there for a decade or more, of course. Yeah. Probably about five or six new ones every year. Maybe seven new ones every year. I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta, I think. Really? Yeah, I do. You were professional pool player? That's quite right. How many british professional pool players are there, would you estimate? Well, right now, on the official professionals on the IPA, International Professional Pool Players association, there's only about 50. Right, mate, you're home and dry. Dave, this is for you, mate. But I'm not a professional now. No, you're not. God, look at this. He's trying to argue me out of giving him a ray Lee, which makes me like him even more. I'm just trying to be humble. I could do with some lessons on that. David, never mind pool coaching, do you? Don't do humility classes, do you? Because that's. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. I feel complete. That's not bad. You get a round of applause as well, but that's just a nice cherry on the icing on the cake. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I do stuff. I love playing pool, but I'm very glad I never bumped into you in a pub after a few pints when I was feeling pleased with myself. Lost a lot of money once in borough. Actually, it was on borough heist. Good grief. I haven't thought about that in years. 20. My dad warned me never to play pool, never to put a large sum of money on a game of pool if you just won relatively small sums of money in the previous two games, because that is classic pool shark. Anthony is in Cardiff. Anthony, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Why do they use belts in, like, boxing and wrestling, but not in any other sports? Fly the flight, the championships, most things, it's like trophies and f one. Football, rugby. But why belts? Stop the shorts falling down. I like that. Oh, it's rubbish. I do apologize. I don't know what's come over me today. I mean, the short answer is you can wear it into the ring and it gets. If you lose, it gets taken away by the winner, doesn't it? Yeah, like a trophy or something. But you wouldn't carry. It'd be weird carrying a cup into the ring, wouldn't it? Or is it? No, it wouldn't. It's a good question. Why? So they must have just started off that way. I actually remember watching an old world of sport wrestling way my father, years ago. And these are carry caps back then. Yeah. Yeah. No, all right, you're on. Yeah. Why? Why do they use belts in boxing? And nothing else actually becomes part of the question, doesn't it? Did you watch the fight the other night? No, I didn't. I actually fell asleep. You saw you paid pay per view, stayed up and then nodded off. Yeah. Love it. As you're a man after mine. Have a round of applause. That's for falling asleep before the boxing came on. We need an answer to the question, though. Why do they use belts in boxing? Zero, three, four, five, six. Zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Twelve. Twenty seven is the time. And another. Dave. This one's in Brentwood. Dave, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, David. Yeah, so, paying a lot of attention, washing my hands now with the old coronavirus stuff and going into the toilets in a local pub. Oh, yes. Most pubs now, they all seem to have these modern high speed hand dryers, but with a blue light. What's the blue light for? What do you mean, a blue light? They cast a blue light on your hands as they're blowing this blast of air down over them. Do they? I do. I'm just going to consult with my crack team. Of operatives is this. Does anyone recognize? Really? So blue light. And your question is why? Yeah. Why do you think illumination does it actually does some sort of cleansing? I can't imagine it does some sort of cleansing thing. Can you? I don't know. All right, I'm going to take your word for it. I don't pay as much attention to the hand dryers as you do. Oh, you will do with the coronavirus coming along. I'm going to wash. Of course I am. I bought some. First time in my life. I bought some antiseptic hand gel yesterday from Superdrug. Well done. Thank you very much. I like to think that if coronavirus doesn't suit the nation, it'll all be down to you in the pub toilet, and me and Superdrug. Dave, that's the fight back starts here. Let's find out. Is that true? Blue lights, hand dryers. Why? One more, I think, before the news. Danny is in Rochester. Danny, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on, mate. It's to do with the wind gusts, so as a basic rule of thumb, you take the mean wind speeds and double it for the gusts. So if it's going to be 20 miles an hour sustained winds, you'd expect about 40 miles an hour gusts. So it's the easiest bit of meteorology, then? Sort of. It's a bit more complicated than that. So it depends how buoyant the air is as well. So the more unstable the air, the faster the air rises under low pressure. And you get stronger gusts as well from that. So obviously, exposed areas, higher ground, tend to see higher gusts than, say, central London would. Just because it's a lot more open and the air can move a lot more freely. Yeah, like it. Okay. And qualifications? I've been studying weather for the past 15 years and I've got accounts on Twitter and Facebook as well. Nice one. Doing meteorology? Yes, go on. What's your Twitter handle? Do you want to give it out if people want to follow your meteorology? Yes, sure. Sir. You couldn't wait, could you? Listen, right, Danny, calm down, mate, calm down. I mean, for the record, you don't get to plug anything if you do it without my permission. So Danny was clearly desperate to plug his Twitter account, but he just managed to bite his tongue and wait until I made. I just took the opportunity when it was offered. James. There you go. Fill your boots. It's called Met forecast. So met number four and then cast. If you just search that, it will come up. I will, if it turns out to be some sort of vile parody account, I shall come after you. I shall come after you myself. 12:30 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Applause for Danny, thank you. Time now for Holly Harris with the headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1235 is the time. Mystery hour continues your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Some good ones still aren't answered, actually. Who first decided that gold was valuable? I won't bore you with why I love that question so much, or indeed the role it played in the genesis of mystery album, but the more you think about it, the better that question gets. The madder that question gets. Actually, Gus, predictions, we've done pool, we've done pilots, we've done why is dog. I personally don't like this question. I don't think my mum would either. I think it's a little vulgar, actually. But, you know, I work with young people and they have different standards when it comes to manners and etiquette. So we're doing a question about dogwee. Why is it always so dark? Even if dogs have drunk a lot of water? Why do sports people put their hands on their head after a spectacular miss or a terrible failure? Why do boxers win belts and not another form of trophy? And why do hand dryers have little blue lights on them? Kem's in Southgate. Kem, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, dog. Wee one. All right, well, I appreciate the snigger. Carry on. Well, it's got to be answered, hasn't it? No, you're right. It's on the list, mate. I mean, I wasn't. I was really trying to sort of subtly criticize my colleagues for having lower standards than me. I wasn't criticizing you for ringing in with an answer. Well, the answer is actually the simple one and it is to do with dehydration. And. And we might think our dogs are drinking enough water, but I would encourage people to take water out on walks. And then if they're still. If their weed is still quite dark, it'd be down to their nutrition and the moisture content in that. And then if it is very, very dark, I would recommend vets, because there could be an issue, albeit minor, with kidneys and red blood cell issues can affect the dog's urine, making it dark. So it is dehydration. We may think they're drinking enough water, but they're not. So most dogs don't do what you've just described. Most dogs, a hydrated dog should have, you know, normal. That's what I thought. That's what I thought. Cam, I gotta be honest with you. I thought the premise of the question. But then he said his wife was a dog walker and all his. All her dogs had the same condition as well. Well, then she should take water out for the dog so they can drink whilst they're out, because it's a very simple, logical explanation to a, you know, disgusting question. Really. I think you're right. What are your qualifications? I'm a qualified canine behaviorist. Are you? Yeah. Do you know Doctor dog? I don't know Doctor dog, but I trained under, like, the Cesar Milan style. Really? How fascinating. I had no idea there were so many dog behaviorists listening to this, but, well, at least three, I grant you. Now, now, I've counted that it's actually not that amazing or impressive after all. But Vieri, our friend in Germany, is doctor. You should have a look at his website. He'll be annoyed that he didn't get to answer this question. But that's Doctor dog. He's a legend. He rang in on our last three dog questions. Oh, wicked. Well, now you've got me as well. I know I've got two. I've got two. I shall call you Junior Doctor dog or Doctor dog, too. Round of applause for Kem. I like that. And I'm sure my dog doesn't do what you've just described, which was what made me wonder whether the question was sound. But how many humans are dehydrated without realizing it? So, you know, dogs don't let you really know when they're thirsty, unless they're really, really thirsty, in quite the same way that they let you know when they're high hungry and if they're anything like humans. And I think this is a mammalian phenomenon, quite often it turns out you weren't hungry. You were, actually. So the first thing you should do if you are craving, you think you're craving food, or actually, if you're craving a glass of vino, first thing you should do is have a glass of water, and then you may well find that the craving diminishes. And this concludes today's medical dispatch. Thank you, Kem. James is in Cambridge. James, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So my wife and I were expecting our first baby in a few weeks. Congratulations. Thank you very much. We had a midwife appointment yesterday, and the thought came to me, why are they called midwives? Oh, that's a nice one, isn't it? Thank you. No, you're welcome. Why? Midwife. Midwife. Midwife. Mid. Mid. I didn't know if mid was like. It sounds like a german word for with or something. Oh, God, you've done it. I think you're right. But then the german word for with is MIT. Not but that mean. Come on, you know. Yeah, well, it's only one letter, isn't it? You ever spoken to a young person? They don't really recognize the letter t everything. Or a New Yorker. Everything is d, you know, pretty good. Donald. Donald, I think you've just answered the question. Would you like a round of applause? Or would you like to wait for somebody more qualified than either of us to confirm that you're correct? I'm happy to split it. All right, I'll give him half. You can have the other half later. If the other person confirms what you've said. I bet it is Mittenwifer. Mit wife. I should probably stop doing that. Errini is in Uxbridge. Errini. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's why there's a blue light on hand dryers. Yeah, they're uv lights and they sterilize. They kill the germs. You serious? Yeah. I don't think so. It's very true. How do you know? Because I'm a beauty therapist and we used to have uv lamps to sterilize equipment in our salon. Yeah, that's not quite the same thing, though, is it? What do you mean? Well, you had sterilizing. No, but you had uv lights in the salon. That doesn't mean that the lights on hand dries are doing the same thing as the uv light. Uv lamps. Yeah, I know, but they just. All their purpose was, was to sterilize and they sterilized by the uv light. No, I know that, but that doesn't mean that the lights on the hand dryers are there for the same reason. Well, it just seemed a little obvious to me. Well, it's a uv light coming off the hand dryer. This is not a bridge I'm prepared to die on. But it's not. I happen to know for a fact that you're wrong. Oh, really? Okay. Sorry about that. No, well, I feel bad now because I don't think you've wronged me before. You know, we haven't engaged in any sort of warm exchanges. I don't feel you've got good value for your contribution to the program, arena. Well, it's not fine. Now you say you sound like my wife now saying fine. Whenever a woman says fine, I generally believe the polar opposite. What's wrong? Nothing. I'm fine, really. What do you know? What is the real answer? I mean, why isn't a uv lamp a sterilizer? No, a uv lamp is okay, but why isn't the blue light on a hand virus? Because it's not uv. Isn't it? No, it is to direct your hands into the area of maximum drying capability. I've learned something, then. Thank you, James. You're very welcome. Would you like to advertise your beauty therapy company? No, I don't do it anymore. I switched career to a nurse. Oh, well, thank you for that. I mean, I don't know, really, what's more helpful. It depends who you're treating. Round of applause for Irene for being lovely. Thank you. And that was my round of applause, which I gave to her. I correctly answered the question about the hand dryer. It's 1242 Kirby, Lonsdale. Next up, in Cumbria, Alison, is there question or answer, Alison. Good afternoon, James. I've got a question. Carry on. Where did we get the idea from that the moon is made of cheese? Facebook. Probably during Donald Trump's presidential campaign. Yeah, probably. The moon is made of cheese. Yeah. There's no rhyme. Is there a rhyme about having the man in the moon? That's a lovely question. I don't know. No, nor do I. Where the moon is made of cheese, where does that come from? Where did that first appear? That's a. I should do my. Damn. How long have we got? We should be all right for that one. I'll try. What's the weather like up there? You all right? Absolutely beautiful. You're not underwater or anything? We are not underwater now. The sun is shining and the birds are singing. Can't say fairer than that, can you? Love it. All right, let's get alison an answer. When did the notion of the moon being made of cheese enter into common parlance? Belts in boxing heads. Hands on heads in football. Doing pretty well, actually. Darren's in Fife. Darren, the kingdom of Fife. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. The sports question. In regards to why they put their hands on their head. Oh, yes. There's two different reasons for both actions. The one behind your head is due to the fact that when you're a baby, your mum cradles your head, so it's a natural reaction of support and comfort. So when you pull up and the reason for the hand on the face is to hide your face due to embarrassment or just general. Yeah. I don't want to be seen, pretty much. So behind the head is a sort of reflex comfort gesture that emulates being cuddled as a baby or having your mother, having your head supported by whoever's carrying you. And the other. And the other one is shame promoted. Shame prompted hiding of face. Those are beautiful answers. I did something a couple of years ago where I'd stroke the top of my head, which is apparently a sign of deep thinking. Did you know that? Yeah. There's apparently, naturally, it was a sports psychologist that told me this. Apparently, naturally, you go to the natural comfort that you felt most comfortable with a child. It's the deep thinking thing. And my wife, for example, rubs her nose because our dad used to rub her nose as a kid. So that is absolutely fascinating. What about qualifications? You've just hinted at it, I think. What qualifications? I used to play a professional rugby and we got a sports psychologist who told us not to do that, because it's a sign of weakness when you play in the opposition. It shook them, so. Yeah. And did it work? No, because I still don't know. Let's be honest. Everybody does it, especially when you're a big guy that's run, you kind of get tired quicker. So naturally, you put your hands behind your head, mostly to get a breath and try and breathe in. I like the idea of not covering a face, because you should be, you know, because quite often when you see footballers doing it, obviously not rugby players, because they're proper men, but when you see footballers doing it, you do occasionally see them missing an opportunity to do a follow up or to have another bite of the cherry, because they're too busy putting their head in their hands. Yeah, that's spot on. And I now coach kids. I actually coach american football now, so it's one of the things we teach the kids. Obviously, their bases are covered anyway, with helmets, but doesn't change the impulse, does it? Yeah, exactly. It's the same thing. You put your hands to your head or behind your head, you see it a lot more in younger kids now. And so anything like between 13 and 17, you can see them try and almost stop and just not take part in anything else. So. Yeah. I thought you said you would get an answer, but there it is. Well, round of applause for Darren. Thanks very much. This isn't really fair, but at what level did you play professional rugby? If it's international level, you get a Rayleigh otter. That's my rule. I did play under 23s for Scotland. But not. You got injured. Yeah, got injured from wheels. Well, I can't not give you one now, can I? Because I just sound like I was bullying you for getting injured. That was a clever play by Darren. Give him a Ray quick. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Thank you very much. Cheers. I appreciate that. You're very welcome. Makes up for everything. Makes up for not being a scottish rugby international at senior level. Yeah. Right, thank you. I'm going to squeeze in Barry before the break because we've got a problem with the switchboard. Question. Answer, Barry in Weybridge. It will be an answer, James. Carry on. It's for the hand dryer. Yes. No, it's not for sanitizing, it's a guideline. So it just shows you the maximum where your hand should be to get the best blow. That's exactly what. Steady on, Barry. That's exactly what I said. There's nothing special about it at all. And the producer didn't believe me. I had it in my ear going, no, it's not true. And it is true. So just say again for the producer's benefit, James, you were absolutely right, James, you're absolutely right. Oh, Barry, thank you. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Oh, hang on. Qualifications done. Hygiene questions. You before. I've been selling this hygiene products for like eleven years. This is your manor, this is your tar, this my spot, these are your people, this is your crowd. Great work. I love that. And it is coming. Quite. Who needs a light? But actually, when you put your hands under a hand dryer, you don't actually know whether where you're going to get the best blow. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Coronavirus is starting to feel like a global board game. It's not clear yet where the pieces will fall. Two more cases here. Are you following government advice? Sheila Fogarty on LBC mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien should probably check with Theo, but I think something remarkable happened in the House of Commons while Michael Gove was speaking. He appears to have contradicted himself within the space of ten to 15 minutes with regards to checks that would be needed for goods making their way from Great Britain to the island of Ireland. Of course, the part of the island of Ireland that would still at least officially be part of the United Kingdom. Hes told a Dup MP that there wont be any border in the Irish Sea. And he ten minutes previously with Brandon Lewis, who is now, I kid you not, Northern Ireland secretary sitting next to him, he said that they would abide by the full requirements of the Northern Ireland protocol in last year's agreement. You can't do both. But I told you this was going to happen. I still can't quite believe it's happening quite so starkly. And then, for the avoidance of doubt, who do you think said this to sign up to a trade deal which results in opening our ports, shelves and fridges to food which would be illegal? To produce here would not only be morally bankrupt, it would be the work of the insane. Yeah, you see, it's the. It's the head of the National Farmers Union. Too late now, lads. James is in north Acton. Question or answer? James? Is he there? James, North Acton. Hello. Hello? Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's North Yorkshire, actually, but never mind. No, no, no, just wait there a minute, please. Right, you, on your feet. How the hell. You're the fellow that got dust and gust mixed up, aren't you? And now you've got North Yorkshire, somehow has reached my screen as North Acton. I just can't get the staff, James, honestly, it really is no wonder you didn't reply when I said James in North Acton, given that you're not in the confused, but no, you're in North Yorkshire. It's not very specific that. Whereabouts in North Yorkshire are you? I know it quite well. Bedale. Bedale. Do you know a place called Beedale? Well, I went to Ampleforth. That's quite there. Yeah, I know. So I do. I think I may even have hiked through Beedale on occasion. Well, while high on CCF glucose tablets. Anyway. Why did you ring? It's part of the. Why did the pilot sit in the left hand seat? Yes, slight clarification. It's not saying the other chap was incorrect, but it's rather more complex than that. Apply power to the aircraft when you accelerate on the Runway, because of the downgoing blade being from past the center axis of the aircraft. Aircraft blade spin clockwise if you stood behind it, yes. The nose tends to yaw to the left, so you apply right rudder. In terms of why we would then sit on the left. In the old days, you would turn left in traffic patterns because it's easier to turn left. Then when you have multi engine piston aircraft, the critical engine is the left hand engine, because the right hand engine, downward going blades, again, produces more torque, so it turns the aircraft to the left, so it's easier to turn left. And again, historically, from navigation, if you were to follow a road or a river before we had gps, etcetera, etcetera, and all the charts. We are supposed to fly on the right hand side side of the river, or road there, or railway line, thereby keeping the feature to the left and opposing aircraft traveling opposite directions, obviously, then wouldn't collide head on. Perfectly done. Well, I think you were quite generous to the previous answer. I think this was more than a clarification. It was close to a correction. I only got my commercial license a couple of months ago, so obviously the theory is quite fresh. And is that. I mean, that's what you. What you do for work now? Yeah, well, no, I know. I'm still looking for a job, so if any of the big boys are listening, this is my cv. No, absolutely. A very, very convincing as well. I'm going to give you a round of applause. How long have you listened to this program? A few years. Now, are you sufficiently well versed with how predictable and boring I am to know why, when you talk about aircraft following the course of a river, I am about to mention Q Bridge. Q Bridge. No. No. Oh, good. I'm just testing the freshness of my anecdotes, because I shall share that anecdote after giving you your round of applause. Thank you very much. So, if you find yourself near Kew Bridge anytime soon, particularly if you're with kids, get to roughly the middle of it. If you're crossing from the north bank to the south bank, you would have that. You'd be on the left hand pavement. Don't roll your eyes at me. This is quality stuff, this. And you can find bullet holes that were put there by german pilots in the second world War while following the course of the River Thames during the Blitz. And you can see, and they're clearly bullet holes, you put your fingers in them and everything. And I tell you now, boys and girls alike love that, but my godsons in particular are absolutely, absolutely delighted by it. And it's such a lovely little thing to do. If you're ever, and wherever you are, you might well be going to visit Kew Gardens at some point. And there you go. Think of me when you stick your fingers in the bullet holes on Kew bridge. Probably needed a bit of work. That Suresh is in Croydon. Suresh. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. So, it's about the boxing question. So the reason that they don't have trophies, although they wear belts, is because they have gloves on, which are very difficult to remove at the end of a match, and therefore it's far easier to present them with a belt rather than a trophy. And then that just leached into wrestling, where they don't wear gloves. I would imagine so, yeah. Qualifications? Peripheral boxing fan. But I've. Yeah, I've looked into this myself because it was. It makes perfect sense. It's an answer of beauty, actually, when you think about it, because they've got whopping great gloves on, you prune. Why wouldn't you try giving them a trophy to wave around? Of course it could. The belt just gets draped over their shoulder or they can bolt it around their waist or. Great answer. It just means so that the boxer can flip and pick it up. Yep. Exactly. Did you stay out for the fight at the weekend? No. No. Like I said, I'm a peripheral boxing fan. I usually work at weekends, so I don't really get time to weigh out your fights. But I do try and watch them wherever I can. Well, it's got you a round of applause. What do you think will happen next? Wilder, fury three or fury? Joshua Fury. Joshua. But I think fury looks pretty good these days, doesn't he? That would be a really good fight. I think I probably would stay out for that one as well. Although let's hope we don't fall asleep like the friend who asked the question. 1257 is the time Julian is in Truro. Julian, question or answer? If an answer. James, carry on. So the midwife question. Yes. You were saying it was from the German? I believe it's old English or Middle English. So it's mid, as in alongside the wife. So the wife bit is. I think it's both. I think Middle English is very germanic in its origins. And the German, very probably german word for with is mit. Mitter. That's right. So. And what does with mean? Does it mean wife or woman? Uh, woman. Woman. So it's with the woman. That's right. And the old English or Middle English? I think it was. And here is the clincher. What are your qualifications? So I write a guidebook for new fathers and I've been working along midwives for the last seven years developing this guidebook. Really? When's it out? It's out now. What's it called? Through the NHS? It's called the dad. Pad. Pad. Pad. And if the guy who's about to have a baby wants a free one, he just needs to get on to me and I can send him on. Great work. We'll try and sort that out. Or we may have lost his number, but he can find it for himself. He's a grown up he's got plenty of time on his hands for the next few weeks and then he'll have none at all. And, of course, with woman makes a mockery of the idea that men can't be midwives because it doesn't refer to the gender of the person, it simply refers to the gender of the person that they're mitter or with. Round of applause for Julia. What a lovely mystery. Al. The only question we didn't answer was the gold one and now we can't, because Sheila Fogarty is here. I am. I'm just a bit worried about the pope. He's been expressing closeness to those affected by coronavirus whilst coughing and sneezing. He only has one lung, so watch this space. We're going to focus on coronavirus today again, two more patients have tested positive in England, bringing the total number of cases here at least 215. They've been transferred to specialist centres in Liverpool. In London. According to the Department of Health, the virus was passed on while they were in Italy. And Tenerife ministers say they expect more cases to emerge. And we know that there is a bigger public information public health campaign coming, presumably later this week or the beginning of next week. The new patients are being treated, as I said, in two different locations in the UK. But a are you following government advice, such as it is at the moment? Are you doing what you're told on your radio? On global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.