Do Bees seek death?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve years of time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, the last mystery hour for a three week window. I'm off on my holidays tomorrow. So there was one fellow who did my holiday cover once who tried to do mystery hours. I was absolutely outraged by his appalling sort of the arrogance of it, the entitlement, the presumption. I presume that David Lammy won't be doing mystery. Aaron? I presume also that Majid won't be. Won't be doing mystery. As far as I'm aware, Majid and David are sharing my holiday cover as I sun myself on various Riviera and beaches. But I digress. This is your weekly opportunity to get an answer to a question that's been bubbling away in your brains for the longest time. Okay, so who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore, why do we do that? Where does that come from? You know, that thing when that happens? Well, why does ni ni ni ni ni. Anything you like. It can be incredibly complicated, serious and academical, or it can be as dumb as biscuits. It's just something that intrigues us. And when Sam and Ava answer the phone calls, they generally work upon two principles. Number one, do I find that question? Would I be interested in the answer to that question? And more importantly, will James be interested in the answer to that question? It's that second distinction that sometimes falls by the wayside. I didn't used to be very fond of motoring related questions because I thought I was cool and that cars were not. So that whole oh, what does the wife drive? How did you get here? A 46 24. It just always spoke to me of people who had a selection of biros in the breast pocket of their short sleeved shirt with the little clippy bits pointing outwards. And I was wrong, you know, very important to admit these things. I was wrong. And I still don't go mad about motoring questions, but banning them all completely was probably a little bit previous, a little bit premature. I quite like this tweet. I don't normally do tweets during mystery hour, but I shall read this one out. The real mystery is how we get any work done during mystery hour on LBC without Mister James Ob. I think everyone knows I'm the only person that does any work this hour and I don't do much. Keith, Sam and Ava do the heavy lifting. This is the 1 hour of the week where they work harder than I do, I. I just sort of sit back, enjoy myself and start collecting rounds of applause. Because a round of applause is what you get if you correctly answer a question to my satisfaction. And in order to achieve satisfaction, actually, I can do a slightly unpleasant turn of phrase there. In order to achieve satisfaction, I need to ask you a few questions. She isn't going well at all. What are you wearing? No, in order to. Qualifications. What are your qualifications? And it doesn't have to be. I've got a PhD in applied sciences. It could be. I saw it on telly last night. But it's the explanation upon which we will base our, what do you call it? Decision on whether or not you get a round of applause. Shall I just shut up and crack on? Yes. Mike Sincrenic. Mike, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Mike. So, as I was totted off this morning to the gym, infrequent as it is, I carried my gym equipment in a rucksack. I just thought of a question. Why? Where did the term ruck come from? Oh, I quite like that. Have you ever heard of a haversack? Used to be called a haversack many moons ago, I think. A rucksack. A rucksack seems like quite a recent word. I don't think I've read it in old books or anything like that. Melissa thought of something like a kit bag. Turning back to first World War. Pack out your troubles in your old kit bag and smile, boy. Smile, boy, smile. Oh, I like that one. I'll find out for you. So we're not confused about sacks, but why ruck? Yeah, a rucksack. I bet it's military, but I'm speculating, so I won't even flirt with the idea of awarding myself a round of applause. Thank you. Mike, how long do you spend in the gym, mate? Do you put in a shift? Oh, as little time as possible. Yeah. You need to be careful. Seriously. Almost everyone I meet on crutches or in plaster or just generally injured or limping, it's always exercise. Seven minutes after twelve is the time Simon is in Herne Bay. Simon, question or answer? Yeah, it's a question. Carry on. Why is it that when you look at your keyboard on your computer and they look at the number section, it goes 789-456-1230 and then you look at your phone and it goes 123-456-7890 yep. And then you look at your calculator and I've got a calculator hand, but I'm sure. That goes the same as a keyboard, I'm guessing. Correct. Which means that the computer keyboard copies the layout of the calculator. So why is the layout of the calculator. You're only allowed one question, Simon, and I have answered it for you. Remember, I'm away for the next two weeks. I shall waste your time anymore, mate. I'll take a round of applause for that, thank you very much. Because originally you'd be using that little key. That's what you do. You've got the numbers across the top, above the letters, but then you've got the number pad, which doubles up as a calculator quite often. And that is the answer. Why do calculators have a different layout from your phones? Because you use the big numbers more than the little. I don't know why, but that's a question someone else can ask. Fraser is in Aberdeen. Fraser, question or answer? I've got a question. James, carry on. Why do men's shirts have buttons on the right hand side and women's shirts have buttons on the left hand side? Do you know this, Keith? Keith knows this one. Are you sure you know this? Well, I'm 90% sure on this, but I've got a little whisper in the back of my brain going, no, that's an urban myth, mate. But I'll tell you what I think it is, okay? Ladies shirts were done up by their maids and so we are mostly right handed. So a bloke who does up his own shirt right handed button in right hand. Yeah. Can you turn the camera off? I turn the cameras off. I just unbuttoned my shirt to make sure I was getting this right button in right hand on. Bloke through hole, job done. Now turn around and you're putting on someone else's shirt, whether it's male or female. And having the buttons on the right hand side means that you're going to be using your left hand to do the tricky fiddly bit, right? I guess so, yeah. Ladies maids, right handed ladies, wearing blouses, buttons down, left hand side. That's good enough for me. I'll pick that. I think I will as well. Round of applause for me, please, Keith. Thank you very much. If it is an urban myth, then we will need a steward's inquiry. 034-50-6097 310 minutes after twelve is the time mark is in Palmer's green mark. Question or answer? I've got a question, please, James. Harry or Mark? Oh, and does a bee know that when it stings you, it will die? No. Simple? Yeah. Are we sure? Positive. Because he would never do it. Would it be altruistic of him to do it anyway? There's no altruism involved, really, in stinging someone. He doesn't. He doesn't help anybody else. It's an evolutionary mistake. He doesn't know he's going to die if he stings you. I'm not going to take a round of applause for that, but I don't think it's an answerable question unless you can speak to a bee. Yeah. We know a lot about the animal kingdom and why they do things, but we don't know about their motivations and they don't have thought processes in the sense that we do. I suppose we could bring lemmings into it at this point. Could we? Lemmings deliberately end their lives, I think, in order to undertake some form of sort of herd control, population control. But when a bee stings, it's only certain types of bees as well, isn't it? Isn't it? Or is it all bees? Is it honeybees? Bumblebees? I don't know. What are these? I think it's honeybees. If you look at, like, wildebeest, they will cross a river and they will be fearful that something in the river might eat them. But they'll still cross the river. Yeah. Because they're even more fearful about not eating, you see. So they cross the river to get to the food on the other side because the grass is greener or something. So calculations and things like that, you're aware, I mean, you wouldn't run away from a lion, would you, unless you knew that it was posing a threat. You might just stand there like a little gazelle and go, oh, there's a nice lion coming to play. But somehow they know that. So that you've got this kind of sense memory. But I don't think. Well, I'll put it on the board. Okay. Okay. We'll see. We'll see. Mark. Well, I mean, I'm gonna politely suggest you don't hold your breath on this one, because I just don't know how anyone is ever gonna read the mind of a bee. If you did, you know what? You know what? You'd hear the internal soliloquy of a bee to be or not? No. Tim's in Brussels. Tim, question or answer? Question, please, James. Thank you, Tim, for sounding slightly bored as I just went off on a really rubbish Shakespeare related joke. Carry on, there's a game. Maybe you know the answer to this because it concerns mystery. Hour. Why are UK elections always hold, held on Thursday? Not, say Sunday, as they are often in Europe? Is it. Is it market day? Was it market day more often in other. I really don't know. It's quite a recent thing. I know that before the first world war, it would take. The elections would run over days. You'd have loads. Yeah. You wouldn't get it all done in a day and the time to count, maybe. Yeah. And then they decided to limit it to Thursdays. It's not happening. Sometimes I keep the caller on the line, Tim, and just sort of chew the fat a bit and throw out a few little nuggets. No, but expecting something to come into my brain because I've got a sense that. But it's not happening, so I'll just put it on your field. You spend many Thursdays dealing with this. Well, I do, but that is why we invented mystery. People often say to me, why isn't mystery on a Friday? It feels like Friday. We often get to sort of 12:15 on a Thursday. It's almost like cracker jacks on the telly back in the 1980s. Or we're all eating crunchies. It's got a very Friday feeling, but we do it on Friday. So it's important to ask why. You see, Tim is a veritable disciple of the program. It's astonishing. You can buy my book in Brussels now as well. Someone told me it sent me a picture of the Waterstones out for you, Tim. Why on a Thursday? Mystery hour is on a Thursday because elections are on a Thursday and when there's an election, we're not allowed to talk about the politics. So we came up with some games and this one proved really popular, so we stayed with it. But why on a Thursday? I do not know. A lovely question. If you know the answer, there's a round of applause with your name on it sitting right here in the studio. Ian is in Luton. Ian, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Carry on. Right. It's the rucksack question. Ruck is the german for back. So it's a back sack. Yeah. Don't say crack. That's it. Yeah, that'll do. It's a back sack. A rucksack. So we've just adopted the german word. Yep. That'll do nicely. It's not the most exciting answer to the mister questions I've ever heard, but it earns you a round of applause. Qualifications? Oh, I used to teach languages and I speak German. That'll do nicely. And have you seen blinded by the light yet? Oh, no, no. The. The thing about Berry park in Lewton. Yeah. You must go and see it. Safraz was here. The guy on whose memoir it was based was here last Friday and I saw him. Oh, you've got to go and see it. If Lewton runs through that film like Blackpool threw a stick of rock in, it's your manor. It's your stamping ground, mate. And there it is in glorious Technicolor, up on the screens. So that's your weekend sorted. Here's a round of applause to take with you. Cheers. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ruksak 1215 is the time. LBC mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it is 18 minutes after twelve. Mystery Hour is underway. Your weekly opportunity to get answers to even the trickiest of questions that may have been bubbling around in your brain for the longest time. The number you need to ask your question, or indeed, to answer any question that somebody else asks, is 034-5606 so nine, seven, three and questions that are still in need of answers. We've done the rucksack and we've done the shirts. Why are elections held on Thursdays? Do bees know that they will die if they sting someone or something? If they sting. Do bees know they'll die if they sting? And I've done the numbers one as well, actually. Do I get a round of applause for the numbers one? Oh, I'll stop showing off. 19 after twelve is a time. Rachel is in Chigwell. Rachel, question or answer? Hi, I have a question. Carry on. So, british bra sizes both double a, a, b, c, DD, etcetera. So why is the double a representing a smaller size and not a larger size than the a? Because it came afterwards. No, it goes before. No, no, no, it came afterwards in chronologically, in time. So did they. So you got your range of bras and then they decide, oh, we need a smaller one, but we've already used a. So what we're going to call the one that's even smaller than an a. Hey, a. Hello? Yeah, I'm still here. That makes sense. I know you sound surprised you're not tuning into this program on a regular basis. Yeah, I do. Then you should know my middle name is making sense. And the same up the other end. You know, we need. We need something that's even bigger than an f. But we've already got a g. All right, what about double f? So that. That is what it is. The original scale became was overtaken by the array of. Well, there's no. I mean, I have to say this. It was overtaken by the dizzying array of boob sizes, and the bra measurement scale had to catch up with the dizzying array of boobs. And that's why you now have double as at the beginning of the register. That makes a lot of sense. Don't ask me what my qualifications are. Thank you, Rachel. That is the answer. Qualifications? I think we've done it before on mythright also, you know, I spent a lot of time in retail, although I was in menswear on the other floors. It was like, are you being served? Phil is in broccoli. Phil, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Philip. It's to do with the bee sting. As far as we're aware, bees are not aware they're going to die when they sting a mammal, because it only happens when they sting a mammal. If they sting any other type of insect or animal, then it doesn't happen. Of course, it's the guards, mainly, that do the attacking, and they set off a pheromone that entices the others to come along and have a go at you as well. And they're only interested in protecting the collective, their individual lives, as far as we know, we. Beekeeping, you know, I've been doing it for ten years. They're only interested in the actual collective. They'll actually give their own lives and they die away from the hive to stop any disease and that type of thing. So what happens if they sting something that's not a mammal, then? You mean like a big dragonfly? Oh, they can go on and sting and sting and sting like a bumble cane, like a wasp cane. The honeybee has a small hook at the end of its stinger. And the problem with mammals is we've got, like, elasticity in our skin, and as soon as they sting and stick it in, it gets caught. Having said that, on rare occasions, the bee starts to pour and realizes it's caught, and it will actually try and turn in a circle and get loose. There's actually a video in YouTube where this bee has actually broke itself free, but it's a very, very rare occasion. And taking from somebody who's been stung more times than he can count. Well, clearly you've answered my next question, which is that you are a beekeeper. Yes, I am. Yeah, we've spoken before, James. I thought so. About bees. Yes, it was. Yes, it was. I can't remember what the question was. Not can I so I'm just making sure I've understood everything. So the bee wouldn't have a clue. You had a boom. So it is an evolutionary mistake, then, really? It is, yeah. And bearing in mind that bees are actually a spin off from the wasp, so originally, they didn't have a hook on the end of the stinger, and we don't really know why that's happened over the millions of years that they've developed. Round of applause for Phil. It's a great answer. I love it. Quite a lot of reaction to my bra sizing question. Andy says, I'm worried that you know too much about bra sizes. I'm not sure you ever can, Andy. Comfort is everything. And Emma, one of my favourite correspondents, who often picks me up on patriarchy related issues, she's going to be redundant soon as my daughters grow older. She writes, oh, my days. You know I love you, but listening to you explain bra sizes is peak cringe. Can we put that on the posters? Peak cringe. Craig's in south shields. Craig, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Um, when or why did we associate the color blue with obscene or rude things? Oh, I know. Like blue comedian, blue movie. I know this. Turning the air blue. I know this. And the reason why I know this is because I used to be wrong. I used to think it was because the censor's pencil was blue. And so it sort of followed on that anything that was covered in blue stuff was filthy. But it is actually because didn't Andy Warhol make a film that was actually called blue movie? Uh, pass. Sorry, I thought you were the expert on these matters, Craig. No, no, I'm just an interested amateur. James, the answer is right. That when they started making pornographic movies, obviously the production values were incredibly low. And also, it had to be done in secret, so they'd use cheap black and white film. And cheap black and white film often assumes a bluish hue because there's not enough lighting there. There is just. And then simply a bluish tint would be in the film, which you could have got rid of if you'd had more money or better quality film or better lighting. And then I think it was exacerbated, or the second bit may not be true, by this kind of flea pits that you'd watch this filth in, so, you know, you wouldn't have the best quality projectors and you'd have quite low lights anyway. But it was because a bluish hue, a bluish tint would appear on the film because of the production processes. Well, I can see why that would explain the movies, but why blue comedians? Or just probe, just take it on from that. Because blue became. Yeah, blue became a synonym for rude then. Okay, so it started. You're saying it started with the film? I think so. It's certainly the answer that I am offering up as definitive, even though I can't tell you why. I just remember it from somewhere, possibly my studies in this sector, in this field. I don't know. It's probably the same place I learned all about bra sizes, actually, Craig. Well, I'm prepared to accept it, but I'll be interested to hear if anyone challenges this. Well, yeah, I mean, if. We mean, if you get some massive porno stuff ringing in to tell us why it really is called a blue movie, I will also be interested in being challenged, but I'm 99%, I'm sure enough. So I'm going to give myself a round of a smattering of applause. Craig, thank you. Zero. 345-606-0973 Graham's in Basingstoke. Graham, question or answer? You're enrolled today, James. Blow me. I know I am. It's almost like I'm a show off, but we all know that's not true. Carry on, Graham. I got a question from my six year old daughter. Oh, lovely. So. And she messes my brain all the time. So what's her name? Eva. Eva. And is she with you at the moment? She's not, no. Okay, so when she listens back to the podcast, we should all say, hello, Eva. Now, what's the question? So, she's in bed, she's laying down, and she said, daddy, can you scratch my back for me? So I'll scratch her back. And then she goes, left a bit, left a bit, down a bit, down a bit. Right a bit. And she goes, daddy, why does the itches on my back move but not on my leg? I'm like, I don't know. Why do they move? I know they don't physically move. But she doesn't want you to scratch her back because she's got an itch, does she? Well, she wants you to scratch her back. No, but, you know, because I think that we're getting our two different scratches confused. There is the scratch that is a joy to do. Your baloo the bear type scratch. Right, I'm doing this. I'm using cultural reference points that Eva will appreciate here. Graham, I hope you're aware of the effort that I'm putting into this. Yeah, I'm appreciative, mate. So you know, the bare necessities. He hasn't actually got an itch, but he gets Mowgli to do it, doesn't he? Because it's a pleasure in and of itself to have your back scratched, or to have your back sort of manipulated, whereas an itch that appears anywhere else, you have to scratch it because the itch is annoying. There are two different types of reasons for scratching, I think, is the answer to your question. It's not that the itch on your back moves around, it's that the pleasure from being scratched on your back moves all over your back. Whereas if you've got an itch, once you've scratched the itch, the itch has disappeared. You're not having it, are you? Well, I don't know. That's a good. That's a good shout, actually. I didn't think of that. Well, it is, because I love having my back scratched. Like. I mean, I really love it. I'm not going to go into too much detail here, mate, but seriously, you scratch my back, I'll do anything. It's just not normal. It's unbelievable. But. But I don't have that with any other sort of body part. You. You know, if I get an itchy. I used to get very itchy calves, for some reason, and I'd have to give them a right old scratch, but it would never be pleasurable. In and of itself, a back scratch is a joy, regardless of whether you're itchy or not. I think that might be it. And you need to let me know. If Eva doesn't accept this answer, then when I get back from. When I get back from my holidays, because there are few more strict teachers than six year old girls. I know this from experience. If she's not satisfied with this answer, I'll have another go at it. But for now, I think that we are. I think that's what it is. It's two different pleasure kind of principles. All right, well, I'll put it to her tonight, mate, and I'll let you know and do what you can. Thank you, Graham. Take care. Love to Eva. Cheers, pal. 29 minutes after twelve is a time. 0345-6060 round of applause for me. Can we ban Howard, please, from this program? He says, I'm very much enjoying at Mister James Ob today. One call about Bras and he's turned into Alan Partridge. Lovely stuff. Eddie O'Grady writes a dizzying array of boobs. James. I think a new Brexit based book title may have just slipped out on the program. It's coming out to 12:30 still need answers on elections on Thursdays, but I've also got time now because the producers are doing such a sterling job to reset the board and have a whole heap a new questions. Zero 345-606-0973 Lisa Aziz is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call ZerO 345-606-0973 it's 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue to solve mysteries. Why are elections on Thursdays? I can't believe. I can't remember that. Or maybe I never knew. Zero 345-606-0973 and room for more questions as well. Michael is in Croydon. Michael, question or answer? Hi, James. Hi. Good to chat again. It's actually an answer. Go on about the bees. I really don't mean to rubbish what Phil said. He's a great guy. What he said made a lot of sense. He's a big beekeeper. He's a big, big beekeeper. Keeps a lot of bees. I don't know how big he is. I haven't met him, but I know he keeps a lot of bees. That's what I mean by a big beekeeper. The bees aren't big either. He's a beekeeper all right. He's been doing it a long time. He's got more bees than I've got in my flat. Yeah. So what's happened is I've lived in West Africa for a number of years and about four years I stayed with one of my uncles, four and a half years, and he's a beekeeper as well. So I learned a lot. Got to see close up and these are aware they're going to die when they sting someone. Yes. If you were to flick a bee and it sort of, you know, in his way, injured itself when it landed. You see it pumping it, you know, the backing where this thing comes from. You see it pumping abdomen as well, and then it tries to get up again and goes to, you know, do that thing. Is that pumping action? If you study it is really intense because it spikes off. You have to have a very fine electrical reader. You see, the bees let off a level of electricity, which I'll get to in a minute. And this is the whole action, is them pumping in all the adrenaline to themselves to get ready for this, what we call final act, the Kamikaze act. Really? Yes. Even if I'm a bee, you know, some of them can, you know, bees have the ability to fly forward and fly backwards. So wasps and bees can sting from behind. They can fly forward and fly back and drag this thing into you float like a butterfly, sting like a bee. This is it. They've also, during that few seconds, they've pumped themselves up again and released that electrical spike. They are aware, and of all the. How can they. How do you know they're aware? You don't know that they know they're going to die. They know that they're going to sting someone. But it's not just like stinging a dragonfly or something. When it comes to stinging, that final act. They are aware, because of all the actions they do in their life. If you can record the electrical readings of these, they have a certain level to reach up to. But this kamikaze act reaches into a different level of electrical reading and that's the only one that exists in that. I like your style, because by throwing in things like level of electrical reading really casually, it makes it sound like you do have. They are highly electrical creatures. With the antenna, they send off so many messages to each other. I mean, you know, the famous bee dance to say, you know, one comes in from foraging and say, well, look, there's a honey four and a half miles away. It does this, you know, up and down dance and circular time. Very reluctantly, I'm going to dismiss your inquiry. I know, James. I thought we were friends. We are friends. Let's not fall out over this. But there is. There is. Oh, mate. I just. They are aware. They can't be aware. They can't be aware. There's no way. Because if they knew they were going to die, they wouldn't do silly stings, would they? Well, this is it. Another thing, which is hundred percent, which is very true. They see their lives as nothing because there's a greater picture. You're doing it again. You're like me. You're just going off on a slight tangent and sounding all knowledgeable in the hope that that will somehow work as a qualification for the thing that you've said. That is not true. We have ego and stuff. I know. I know about the nature of the hive. In fact, I don't think male bees. Drones don't sting anyway. There's all sorts of different. You're not. I'm not giving you a point for this. No, I'm not. I'm leaving it with Phil. They do not know, because if they sting something else, the hook comes out again. It's the nature of mammalian skin, like a pig or a human. That means that they can't get the sting back in again. They can do it. If they sting something else, they keep the sting. They don't die. I think you need to leave the adrenaline out of this, Michael. It's distracting you. It's all about adrenaline. It's got all electrical a minute ago. Make your mind up. Is it electrical or is it adrenaline? Well, they're both linked, aren't they? Yeah. Which one is it? It was all about adrenaline and then it was all about electricals. It's just like a boxer going into a ring, you know, they have to get all sacked up and their electrical readings go up there. It doesn't mean he knows he's gonna die. It means that doing a sting is a big deal. No big stings lightly, you know, a sting is a sting. It's a big thing. But equally, he doesn't know he's gonna die. So all of your arguments are saying, do stings think. Do bees think that stings are a big deal? And you go, yes, they do. You can tell by all the adrenaline and the electrical stuff. Right, but do they know they're gonna die? Hell, no. Otherwise they'd never sting anything. What's worse than dying? Sorry, pal, I'm sticking with Phil. Mike's in Basingstone. Mike, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's an answer. Hello, Mike. Are we keeping you up, mate? You don't. You don't sound over engaged. Don't worry about that. That's all right. You carry on. I'm pretty sure I know this one about the voting on a Thursday. Oh, yes. One is that the market days were normally on a Thursday in the olden days. It's not that. I tried that one, mate. Crashed and burned. Didn't work. Yep. Yeah, you'd find more people in towns on a Thursday. It's not that. Secondly, paydays are normally on a Friday, so people wouldn't be influenced by drink. Nah, this only got introduced in about 1919. Right. Okay. Well, the other one is, I've heard that a vicar could give. If a vicar was doing his sermon on a Sunday. Yeah. He could be politically biased towards a certain party. Yes. So by the time Thursday come along, hopefully that's opinion maybe forgotten. Yeah, I mean, that makes sense as well, actually. Yep. That. These are all on Wikipedia, apparently, Mike. Oh, really? No, I've just got. I've got lots of books from facts. All right, well, none of them are facts, they're all theories. Sure. Oh, no, I'm gonna give you half a round of applause for being a nice chap. But I'm not, that's all. Because there's no. I don't possibly. There is no definitive answer to this, but a lot. Go on, give him a little. Just a half. 1241 is the time. Bradley's in Gillingham. Bradley, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. All right, Bradley. Why is it when I eat sweet corn, oh, why are we letting this sort of filth on the program? Honestly, it's gone right downhill today. Why can't you digest it? You can. Why does it come out whole, then? Because you haven't chewed it, you prune. No, you haven't. If you chewed it, it wouldn't be coming out whole, would it? It's the. It's the membrane. It's got quite a thick membrane. Sweetcorn. So you need to chew it. If you chew it, you'll absorb and digest it. Your researcher said, that's a very good question. Well, that's appalling behavior you've got on air with a rubbish question. You're trying to blame it on the person that answered the phone. It's your. Did he hold a gun to your head, Bradley, and tell you to. Come on, ask this question. Did he force you to. Did he feed you this question? Or was it all your own work? No, he didn't. He didn't. You know why. Exactly. No, I don't want to hear it. Round of applause for me. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much. 1242 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you've got a question, we've got time to squeeze it in. Or if you have another answer. John's in Isleworth. John, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, John. Right, James, here we go. Now, as well you know, London is made up of many, many names, many, many, many little places. Indeed. Chiswick comes to mind immediately. Cheese wick, as it was originally known. A little bit. Two little farms. Cheese white. Two little cheese farms where you could come on your little barge and buy a bunch of cheese. You've got it. Yes. James, it's occurred to me to ask, is there anywhere in what we know as London that is just solely called London has no other name? You've got the City of London, but even then, if you go to the city, you've got moregate, Barbican. No, I know, but they are all in the City of London. But Barbican and Moorgate. One's a gate, one's a building. They're not. They're not regions. Are they? Or are they? No, they're not. Mull gate was a gate. Ludgate was a gate. Barbican was a barbican. No, it was. What do you mean? Don't making these noises. I am right. The City of London is a place, and it had to. We started distinguishing between the City of London and the rest of London when the rest of London started springing up on the outskirts of the City of London. So although you have places in the City of London that are geographically designated, they're going to be building based or smaller than a borough. You know, they're going to be linked to a river or a geographical feature. They're not going to be, I think London is the City of London. Or a church. Yeah, exactly that. Okay, I'll take that, thank you very much. I'm on fire today, John. That's another. I might have broken my own record on this one. All of these answers, of course, are open to stewards inquiries should you so desire. But for now, I'll take that one as well. Thank you very much. 0345. Gino is in Westerham. Gino, what would you like to say? Question, please. Carry on, Gino. Right. Why is it when golfers do awayward shot, they need to shout out, yes. Why? Short for before. Short for before? Yeah. Before what? Oh, before you get hit on the head. All right, not incoming or. Well, you could have done that. You could have come there again. We have. I mean, it's. I think that comes from shooting galleries or something, like firing squads. If you wouldn't go wandering around in front of a thing of me jig, would you? You wouldn't go running around before. Before the gun. So look out, beware. And then it got adopted into golf. No one's 150% sure, but that is widely regarded as the correct answer. Really? Yeah. Oh, God. Oh. I mean, what else could it be before you look out, before, obviously, before you get hit on the head with a golf ball was a hilarious joke by me. That's not the real thing. But shouldn't all come in or incoming. You can't rewrite history, Gino. There's lots of things that we'd probably rename now if we could, couldn't we, with the benefit of 2020 hindsight. But you can't go waltzing around the place willy nilly, renaming traditional things, can you? No. Okay. Four. Four. Yeah. Four. Four what? I don't care. Round of applause. Have I had one already on this? Oh, God. How many is that now? Is anyone keeping track? That's about twelve more round of applause for me after this mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mysteries are being solved like they're going out of fashion. Either that or I've covered myself in glory. That was utterly undeserved because none of my answers were correct. We'll find out any stewards inquiries on the way. Are we all right on this? Really? Really. You better be sure that they're right because the last one wasn't. Tara is in Notting Hill. Tara, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So when it's raining, you get more wet by running or by walking. Ah, this is a hardy perennial, isn't it? This is sort of one of those sort of. Didn't they? I think they did it on mythbusters. I was on a. I was on a run recently around Rubens park and it started chucking it down and we couldn't decide whether to carry on running or to walk. And it was a really stressful situation. I know that on Mythbusters they decided that you were better off running, but I think that. I know that they also decided that you were better off walking and then changed their minds. I can't remember which way round it was. That's the problem. So let's just all go for runs in the rain. But also, it's going to depend on other variables. Were you around yesterday when the heavens opened? I was. I was inside very much. That rain was astonishing. I got, you know, I mean, it came down like you wouldn't believe. I sprinted upstairs to shut my skylights. Otherwise the, uh, otherwise the bed gets soaked. So I think it's best to just hide underneath a tree. But that. Yes, yes. But, well, unless there's lightning, that's a whole heap of new problems. You've got to be careful what you say on live radio, Tara, seriously, you could have blood on your hands by close of play today. True. Apologies to anyone that might take that on board. Quite right, too. Thank you. But I think there's too many variables to give you a definitive answer because it depends on wind, it depends how heavy the rain is, depends how fast you run. But on mythbusters, they definitely arrived at both conclusions, and whichever they conclusion, they arrived at second. They went with as the, uh, as the answer. But I'll leave it. I'll leave it on the board. Hopefully, someone cleverer than me will be able to come to your rescue. Tara. Okay, great. Thank you. No, thank you. Thank you. 1251 Phil's in Gibraltar. Hello, Phil, how are you? Not too bad. Me yourself. Mustn't grumble. Now, where were we? You nearly read out a tweet of yours earlier today. Well, what would that have been about? Oh, I just sit at work all day tweeting because, you know, I don't have an important job. Watch out for terrorist. No, I know, but you tell me about your first job. Second amendment rights. No, it was your first job. Doing bets or something like. Oh, yeah, it was about degrees, because I got two degrees, but that's not how I got my job. There we go. There you go. You see, I do read your tweets, even if I don't always read them out. What are we here for? Question or answer? It's an answer. Let's do it. Right, first of all, stop taking questions on the selections on a Thursday thing. Elections are not always held on a Thursday. Well, they have been since. Since the representation of the people. There's been exceptions. There is also no definitive answer either. You guy that was on earlier with his three different answers, they've been punted by various different historians. There's nothing. There's no legislative reason for it. There's, you know, the idea of the drinks. Because pay slip on a Friday. Yeah, there's the idea of the church being able to influence things. But it's not just churches, also social groups, other religions as well. Obviously. You've got Muslims, we're meeting on a Friday, you've got people in synagogue on Saturday, etcetera. So that's a potential reason for it as well. But, you know, ultimately there is. There is no reason, there's no statute and it's not always the case that they're held on Thursday. Now, I don't know if you get a round of applause for that. You don't need to give me a round of applause. It's fine. I'll give myself one. Really? That'd be a bit weird. You know, every. Every day I give myself on. It's fine. I sound like me. Because you haven't answered the question. You've. You've. You've destroyed the premise of the question. Is that. Is that not the same thing? No, of course it isn't, mate. It's two very, very different things. Have I not just brought sovereignty back to the question? You could have restored some sovereignty back, but there's not. There's not. There's not. Yeah. I'm gonna give you the other half of the round of applause that I gave the fellow who did the that seems entirely reasonable. It does, doesn't it? Here we go. That's nicely done. Can I give you one more thing, though? What for? Stop using Mythbusters. That's terrible, terrible science. No, I didn't, did I? I said that they didn't provide proper answer. They provided two answers. Which proves your point. I've never used it as a qualification. I merely used it as the absence of a qualification. Because you will have noticed, Phil, if you were paying attention, that I didn't take a round of applause after my conversation with Tara. Steve's in Dorking. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer. Maybe a Steward's inquiry. James, I've got an AP who thinks it's a Stewart's inquiry. Who's Stuart? Sam Steward with a D. It's not Stuart's inquiry. Some mythical Stewart who sits in judgment on mystery hour all day. Stewards inquire, carry on. Steve. Stewart's inquiry better not be one of mine. It is one of yours, I'm afraid. Bring it on, then. Come on. Come on, then. Come on, big man. Come on, big man. What have you got? Show me what you've got. Come on. A place in London that's just called London. Yes. In High park corner, you've got a beautiful house called. Absolutely house, which is number one London and there is no other address for it at all. Qualifications. You're right. It was my. It was my beat for the first two years of my career. Duke of Wellington lived there. I think, off the top of my head. He did. I bet he did. Duke of Wellington. Yeah. My mate from school, who I haven't seen for 30 years, who's coming to have his book signed, just gave me a thumbs up and said, it's definitely the Duke of Wellington. And he went to Ampleforth, mate, so he knows what he's talking about. And you were there when you were on your beat? Yeah, the first couple of years of my career, I was walking the beat around there and I used to pass it all the time and see number one London. I thought, a funny address. It's a lovely address, it's correct. And it gets you a round of applause, but it doesn't actually remove the correctness of my original answer. It just means there's more than one answer to the original question, which was, is there anywhere that's just London? So, number one London. That's lovely, that. Yeah. Number one London. Love it. Round of applause for Steve, please. Thank you. 1255 is the time. Mark is in subbit and Mark. Question or answer? Answer, James. Go on. Because you got the four thing wrong. You know I don't. Didn't. Yeah. I've got a tea towel question right with you as well. Once. But anyway, I'll give you the proper answer. It's called forewarned. You know when you get, say forewarned? Yes. When you're on a golf course. I play golf. If you miss shot, you shout out for yes. If you said four, worn by the time you got to warn the ball with the person already. So that's why you just say four. Yes. Not true. It is true. On your holiday soon. It's not. I am a little demob happy, I grant you, but I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think it's rather charming. It's rather charming, but no, it's not true. And to be honest. No, it's not true. Forewarned. What a load of old nonsense. Susan. Forewarned. It's before forewarned. Say warned. Why don't you shout warned? Warned. Shout for. Because it's for you. Before you. It's a four ye go on. A bottle of Bell's whiskey. It's all linked. Professor Hal is here. I have no idea why, but if you're here to pick holes in any of my answers, frankly, you can do one. None at all. But I will do one running through raindrops. Let's do like Einstein did and do a thought experiment. Instead of drops of rain, imagine a huge shower. Like a bathroom shower. Yeah. And my question is the same. If you sauntered through it as slow as you like, and then you ran through it as fast as you could, which one of those options would make you wetter? The first one or the second one? I do this at the gym because I'll tell you, I don't know if I should put some sort of warning out before I conjure up these mental images, but what I do, I go in the steam room. How? I get all hot and sweaty and bothered and. And then I quite like to go through the cold shower, but I'm a bit of a wuss. So I go. I pressed cold and I kind of, sort of tiptoe dance through it like that, very, very quickly. And then I press hot, which heats it up again. And then I walk back through slowly and I get wetter when I run. Drier. Right. Wetter when I walk, yeah. Because you're exposed to less flux of water hitting you. So I think the answer is, the faster you go, the least, the drier you stay. I think you're right and that is you can actually do your own test at my gym outside the steam room. I'm trying to not to think about you in the shower at the minute. I'm not. It's not a normal shower, it's the shower that you have to go through. It's a shower you go through because normally, mate, you're going to come right old cropper if you go running in the shower, because it's only got one entrance and exit and you're going to run into a wall or slip over. But in the gym, this is the one you have to go through to get all the. All the sweat off your body before you get into perhaps the plunge pool or the jacuzzi area. Okay? And that's why you can run through it. And of course, you're going to get less wet if you run than you are if you have qualifications. I'm very lucky and delighted to be the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Oh. Boom. Round up. Applause for Professor Howe. Thank you very much. And that concludes this week's mystery. Did we answer every single question? Thursday, itchy back, I took that one. Thursday, London B. That's an astonishing piece of work. Well done, everybody. It's a pleasure to have been part of this magnificent, magnificent radio moment. We will be doing it all again tomorrow morning from ten. We will not, however, be doing mystery hour for three weeks. Two Thursdays on the horizon, both of which I will not be here for. I hope you can cope with the sadness. Luckily, Sheila Fogarty is here to keep you company. I am. And I just want to go to a spa. Now, after all that talk, didn't I? Yeah. Jacuzzis and steam rooms, they've got this one thing, I'll tell you that. Okay, thank you, James. Now, every Thursday in August, I'm focusing on one area in the national conversation, as they say, about what is happening in that particular area. And what bigger one is there than the National Health Service? I'll be joined by a consultant geriatrician who deals daily with the dilemmas around social care for older people, a GP and a health policy expert as well. And they'll take your calls. That's from three two. If the labor is the Labour party, I should say the key to stopping, no deal. And if it is, which way should it turn? Straight up after the news, though, that frenzied, unprovoked, shocking attack on a police officer with a machete by a driver of a van. Police officers say he's probably alive because he was able to taser his attacker. Is it time all of them had a taser?