Is destroying money illegal?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Five minutes after twelve is a time. And here it is, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you haven't listened before, trust me, it's fun. And goodness knows we've needed it, haven't we, over the last couple of years? It was always a pleasure to slip into something a little more lighthearted than the normal news agenda. But given that the news agenda has been so grisly, so recently, it's been doubly valuable, I think. How does it work? Pretty straightforward. Ring in with a question, somebody else listening will then ring in with an answer. The only rule, really, is that if you're going to ring in with an answer, you have to know it straight up. I don't care how you know it. I'll check. I'll seek your qualifications, which can be anything from I saw it on telly last night to I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, equally valid qualifications. We just need to establish that you know it because you're not allowed to look anything up. It's a. It's it. Miss Jarrah is designed to hark back to bygone days, which is just a way of saying it's to make us old fogies feel a little bit better about the fact that all the stuff we learnt at school doesn't matter anymore because our kids can find it out in the flick of a phone. All the sum total of human knowledge, several millennia of evolution. Well, more than millennia of evolution, isn't it? But several millennia of intellectual adventure, all now distilled into microchips and servers and clouds. So the whole notion of education has changed without us really noticing. And mystery hour is an attempt to sort of hold back the tides of technology and still revere and respect learned knowledge, memorized knowledge, almost. And I think it is valuable. I think it does have its place, but it's also very funny. So the only rule is you're not allowed to look anything up, whether online or in encyclopedias, but if you reading the encyclopedia last week or last night, and you happen to have that nugget of knowledge to hand, that's allowed. That is perfectly permissible. Should we just crack on, actually try and squeeze in a few more questions even than we usually manage, and spare the rubric, spare the terms and conditions. Remember, the number is always the same. Zero 345-606-0973 but even more than usual. You do have to be patient because it is very, very, very hard to get through and we do our best. We have to churn, we have to turn over the switchboard assiduously than we do even for the other 14 hours of the week because otherwise we'd never get any answers. Everyone would be ringing in with questions. So please, whoever you speak to, if you do ring in, please be polite and cognizant of the fact that this is the radio producer equivalent of spinning plates this hour. It's not just spinning plates, it's spinning plates on a unicycle while also playing the mouth organ. Okay? That is what they're doing in the studio while you ring in. So please be polite and be mindful of that. Eight minutes after twelve time, John is in Bournemouth to kick things off. John, question or answer? Hello, James. First time corner. Welcome, John. The question is, how is it that horses are able to sleep standing up? Well, it's because they've got four legs. Why don't they fall over when they're asleep? Same reason tables don't. Well, tables don't have brains. Do you think there's the vaguest chance that my answer contains a scintilla of relevance? No, no, nor do I, because, I mean, dogs have got four legs and cats have got four legs and lots of other mammals have got four legs and none of them sleep standing up. The horse is definitely sleep standing up. It's not one of those old childhood myths I heard, Claire Balding. Oh, well, it must be true. Gives this as an explanation, watching the Olympics the other night. They never lie down, horses. Oh, they do, do they? But if they're in a horse box traveling across Europe, you know, 3000 miles and they're standing up, they can have a cat. How do they go to sleep? So how does it work? How can a horse sleep standing up? I like it. I mean, it's a similar theme to the questions we answered recently about how birds, some birds can sleep while flying, so it's probably a sort of semi animated state or something like that. But I don't know, I like the answer. Some of the comedy, not comedy commentary surrounding the dressage at the Olympics. Deeply unfair, but quite funny. You know the idea that all you do is get on a horse and whisper. The easiest way to get a gold medal is you get on a horse and whisper. Get on a very, very well trained horse and then whisper in its ear right over to you, Dobbin. And then the horse goes off and does all that ballet stuff and you get a gold medal at the end of it. I thought. It made me chuckle anyway. Absolutely inaccurate and deeply unfair, but quite funny. John. Thank you. Lauren is in Ealing. Lauren, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So, people used to drink beer because it was safer than water back in hundreds of years ago. But how did they do? Yeah. How did they discover, though, that beer was better to drink than water? If they hadn't made beer before, would they accidentally kill themselves with the water and then had to find something else? What do you mean, if they hadn't made beer before? Because someone had to make it at some point. Yeah, but they didn't make it because it was safer to drink than water. They made it by accident. Realize that it would probably not even taste it. Realize that it got you drunk and therefore tried to make it again. Are you familiar with Jon Snow? I know of Jon Snow, yeah. Which one? Both. There's three, actually. Is that okay? There is the epic. Yeah, no, I know. But what I'm saying, I'm wondering is, like, they made it because it tasted nice, but when did they decide that? Because of the. Well, I think Jon Snow. I think Jon Snow is relevant here. And I'm thinking of Jon Snow, the scientist, the cholera fellow, not the character from Game of Thrones or the doyen of newsreaders. So, Jon Snow discovered that cholera was killing people by plotting a map of everybody who died, or everyone who'd been affected by cholera, and realizing that they all lived near a particular well, a particular water pump on Broadwick street in London. But that wouldn't have made it clear, because what clinched it was a woman who'd used to live around there, but she'd moved, I think, to Islington, and she caught it as well. And when he went to talk to her family, it turned out that she. She thought the water that came out of the pump, but near Broadwick street, where she used to live, was better than the water that came out of the pump in Islington, where she'd moved to. So her devoted sons used to bring her buckets of water from the Broadwick street pump to Islington. And that's how he realized that the source of the cholera outbreak was the pump on Broadwick street. And it was a huge breakthrough for science and epidemiology and all the rest of it. He discovered it was waterborne by studying that. So I presume that what happened was somebody just noticed that the fellow over there who's drinking beer all the time, didn't get sick when everybody else did. Everybody else was drinking water. But this lad was drinking beer and he didn't get sick, so they put two and two together, came up with four and realized that it was drinking the beer, the fermentation process being a sort of form of purification, and that is how they discovered it. So I very much doubt you'd be able to put a point on it like you can with John Snow and the Broadwick street pump. Yeah, so that's what I was going to say, because John Snow, relatively, was quite late, because it was after medieval. But you're right. 1850, 418 54, exactly. So probably before that, whereas it's just water generally not being good, because people always say, don't. Water was dirty, water was not purified, so they'd be drinking dirty water and the beer, which was made using the dirty water. But of course, by going through the fermentation process, it would have been purified, it would have killed a lot of the bacteria, all of the bacteria. And they would just have realized that drinking small beer, it used to be called very, very weak beer, not only quenched the thirst effectively, but also he didn't keel over. And everyone who'd been drinking out of the water bucket keeled over at tea time. That'll be all it is. Yeah. I don't know why I don't think of it like that. But you don't need. Yeah. You don't need a specific event for people to notice. No, no. It would have been. It would have been like science. It would have been observing the available evidence and fitting a theory to it. The theory was, if you drink beer, you won't get sick. If you carry on drinking water, you will. Then they can test it by, you know. I don't know if they did test it, but it would have been tested naturally. Loads of people would have carried on drinking water. The fellows over there would have carried on drinking beer. They didn't get sick. They may have fallen over for other reasons, depending on how much beer they drank, but they weren't puking their guts up. And the fellas over there were. And that. I'm 99.9%. 99% sure is your answer. Yeah. It would just be good to try and pinpoint it. Well, all right then. Flipping it. There's no pleasing you, is there? I just gave you a bit of history, a bit of Game of Thrones, a bit. A tour of Soho. I've given you everything here and you want more. I like the fact you talked about that lady who bought the buckets. That's very funny. It's a lovely tale. It's one of my favorite stories. And you can still see the pump next time you're in town. I've seen it. And the pub right next to it is called. I can't remember the Jon Snow. Lauren, the John Snow pump. Thank you. Thank you. I'll leave it on there. Was there a point at which it was established that if you like turning water into beer, removed the impurities and the dangerous bacteria from water. Otherwise, I'll take that round of applause myself, although I don't want to do any premature celebration. Nobody likes that. It's coming up to 12:15. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. How come horses can sleep standing up? And was there a point at which we discovered that beer was safer to drink than water in the days before, you know, water purification and chlorination and whatever the rest of it may involve? It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three, four, five, six, zero six, zero, nine seven, three. Seventeen minutes after twelve is the time. How come horses can sleep standing up? And I like this. That's the best answer I've ever heard. James. Why does a horse not fall over when it's asleep? Same reason the table doesn't. I still think I might turn out to be right on that one. And I also think I might get a round of applause for the when was it discovered that beer is safer than water question. Although we're looking for specifics on that and some of you pointing out it's not fermentation necessarily, but the boiling before the fermentation. I don't know. But the question that I think Lauren wanted was almost a date. When was it discovered that you could avoid waterborne diseases by drinking beer? Harry's in Willsden Green. Harry, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Harry. So, as far as I'm aware, it's illegal to destroy money. Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on. The KLF set fire to a million pounds once, didn't they? I don't even know who that is, so that doesn't help. But how old are you? 26. Oh, this is happening time and time, more and more often. To the KLF were like a really big band and they set fire. Oh, it doesn't matter. Go on, carry on. Do they get in trouble? I don't know. I was just trying to remember. Yeah, well, that may answer the question, to be honest, because when you go to amusement parks or place like that, you can. You find those machines where you can put in a one p and some other form of payment and they kind of squish them into, like, novelty. Novelty coins. Imprint. Like a logo of where you were. Yes. And assuming it was illegal to destroy money, I was questioning how that was legal. I'm always wary of questions that are built upon an assumption. You see, Harry, that's the issue here. But it does. I mean, defacing her Majesty's image, I think, would be the offense. Would it? Yeah, that's what I thought. And I know the things you mean. We've got. One of my youngest went through a phase of loving them and it used to drive me potty. Because you pay a pound to mutilate a penny. A penny is not worth a penny. It's based on kind of money being out in existence. If you're right, the reason I don't like questions based on assumptions is that you're only allowed to ask one question. And if it's based on an assumption, you're essentially asking two. Which is, is it illegal to deface money or to destroy money? And if it is, how come those machines. I don't want to get anyone into any trouble, but at places like Kew Gardens, charge you a quid to mutilate a penny and stamp a sort of commemorative motif on it so it acts as a form of souvenir. How come they get away with it? I like that. I like the way your brain works. We'll try and find out. Harry. The phone line went a bit south at the moment, so I shall spare you a personal farewell. Kenny's on the Wirral. Honestly, you wait all week for a caller from the Wirral and then two come along at once. Kenny, question or answer? It's a question, James, carry on. Out of all the sports that we have, I'm just wondering, why do we have umpires in some sports and in other sports we have referees and they're basically both doing the same job, like crickets, hockey, tennis, have umpires. Football, rugby. Does hockey have an umpire? You sure hockey has an umpire? Positive. That's what. That's what made me think of the question, whether it's in that. And does a hockey umpire run around like a referee in football? Absolutely. Yeah. Because I was going to suggest that umpire stand still while referees run around. What do you have in snooker? It's a referee in snooker, isn't it as well? It is, yeah. They hardly run around, but they don't stand still. No. Yeah. All right. So, yeah, I like that question. We've probably done it before, but my memory's not up to the job of remembering what I had for breakfast, never mind what we did on the show six years ago. I shall try and find out. Is this inspired by watching the Olympics? Absolutely, yes, isn't it? Okay, what's the difference between a referee and an umpire? Why do some sports have referees and other sports have umpires? I'm really looking forward to the answer to that one. Margaret is in Newton Abbott. Margaret, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James, carry on. It's a horses standing up one. Oh yes. So horses don't actually sleep unless they're lying completely flat out, and they only need to do that 2 hours in every 24 hours. So sleep, when you see them in the field and they look like they're sleeping and they've got like one leg sort of looking a bit bandy at the back. Yeah. They've actually got a mechanism in their hind legs that allows them to lock one of their hind legs like a table. Like a table. Like a table. Like a table. Thank you, thank you, thank you. So they lock one hind leg and they can go into a sort of semi catatonic state. Semi, yeah. They'll only get proper REm sleep when they're actually laid completely flat out. How interesting. So you'd argue that they were resting rather than sleeping standing up, like my dad when he was watching telly and he used to nod off and then I'd wake him up, he'd say, no sir, I was just resting my eyelids. They're resting their eyelids, aren't they? Yeah. So when they're in the horse box, which is obviously what the questioner picked up on, something Claire Balding said, although I mean, she would know, wouldn't she? She grew up surrounded by horses. So he probably slightly misunderstood whatever it was she said then, if they were going on a really long journey, what would they leave them? Could they lean if they were in the horse box? To be honest, they don't go to sleep at all when they're in the horse box, so they're continually sort of managing their balance with their legs, so their weight will be shifting across their legs all the time they're there, which is why there's limits on how long you can actually have a horse in a horse box or a trailer. What is the limit? Oh, now you're asking. Don't worry, not more than a few hours. No, for that reason. So it's quite stressful for a horse then, to be in a horse? Yeah, it is, yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of stress involved with traveling horses. Definitely. Fantastic answers. Qualifications? I actually lecture in equine science and I also research in it. Really? Yeah. How many equine science lecturers are there in the country at the moment? There's a fair few thousand. 30, maybe, not many. He level at higher education. Degree level? 20 or 30 equine science lecturers? We give. We don't know, because if I gave you a Ray Liotta, I'd have to give how Professor Hallera to every time he rings in, and that is weekly. So he'd have. Does it help that I did have a student who did some research on traveling horses, on this very specific issue on how. Yeah. Behavior within the trailer and everything, because obviously it's really important to keep them happy as possible. I think we should. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Great stuff, Margaret. And you go. You get a round of applause as well. There we go. And that was a generous one, Margaret, it was a generous one. But I really liked your answer, partly because it endorsed my theory of the table. Although they're not actually sleeping when they lock that back leg. Lovely stuff. Chris is in tooting. Chris, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Chris, do cats need to have sunshine to have to get their daily dose of vitamin D? I mean, you're comparing them to other mammals. You're thinking that we get vitamin D via sunshine absorbed through our skin or whatever. I don't know what the science is. So because cats are covered in fur, you're wondering whether it works on them as well? Well, no, my cat doesn't go out, you see. So I'm wondering if she needs a bit of vitamin D, so could it. Well, I mean, how is. How is she? Sorry, how is she? Is she all right? How is she looking? Well, she's very fat. Right. Well, that's because she doesn't get much exercise. She. She's very fat. But apart from that, she's healthy. So she's not got any vitamin D deficiency then, as far as we can tell. I don't think so, no. Well, you've kind of answered your own question then, Chris. I just wondered. No, I don't mean if you think that the. I mean, if she was a plant, she'd need sunlight to do photosynthesis, but she's not a plant, she's a cat. I really don't know how. How we do. We absorb it through our skin? Don't ask me. I'm just a gob on a stick on the radio. I presume we do. I mean, there's not much else we could absorb it through, is there? Through the eyes, ears. Through the eyes and the ear. I don't know. I wouldn't have thought. I shall find out for you. What? Does a cat who never goes outside. I'm trying to get the question phrased correctly. Does a cat who never goes outside run the risk of a vitamin D deficiency? Yes, please. You're very welcome. I shall find out for you. Thank you. No, thank you as well, Chris. And maybe feed her a little bit less. You know, just gotta keep an eye on the old. On the old waistline. 1226 is the time. Jane's in Walton upon Thames. Walton on Thames. Even Jane. Question or answer? Hi, I've got a question. James. Carry on. I don't understand why the word bi weekly? Why does that mean twice a month? Because that, for me, should be bi monthly. A bi weekly, I would have thought, would mean twice a week. Where are you getting the idea that bi weekly means twice a month from? Because there's lots of meetings at the moment where they put it in as, like, bi weekly, and it happens once a fortnight. And I've tried picking them up on it. I googled it and it says it can mean both. And I don't understand why. Well, it's just a linguistic glitch, like flammable and inflammable. Both mean exactly the same thing. I looked that up. But apparently they don't mean exactly the same. Hang on a minute. Hang on a minute. They apparently don't mean exactly the same. But your lovely lady who I spoke to, she also was perplexed. Well, it's okay. I mean. I mean, you've already looked it up, so you know that you're right. It is. It is the case that it can mean either. So you're trying to work out how it can mean either. Exactly. Exactly. I might struggle to explain this. You know, when you can feel understanding in your head, but you can't necessarily get it out of your mouth? Does that ever happen to you? I'm right there now. I'm feeling understanding in my noggin, but I don't know if I'm going to get it out. My God. But I'll have a go. It's because the by refers to two. Exactly. So it could be referring to two within a week or two weeks. So it could be every two weeks or it could be twice. So it's the two you need to focus on the buy, not the weekly, and think about how the two plays into the word weekly. And it can mean two things. Ironically enough, it can mean either two times in a week bi weekly, or it can mean every two weeks bi weekly, every two weeks. Why doesn't the same apply for bi monthly? Well, I don't know, do I? I'm trying to answer your question. It's not. I can't come up with supplementaries. Well, it wouldn't work with bimonthly because. Oh, you see what you mean. Why doesn't bimonthly mean twice a month? Yeah, exactly. Well, it's a good job you didn't ring in with that question, isn't it? Otherwise I wouldn't have been able to answer it. I'm taking a round of applause for the other one, though, Jake, thank you very much. Thank you very much. There it is. And of course, the more confident I am that I've provided a cracking answer to a question, the more likely it is that you will ring in a little later and set me straight in a steward's inquiry. So do feel free to do that on zero 345-606-0973 cats and vitamin d. Referees and umpires, what's the difference? Why do some sports have referees? Other sports have umpires. Beer is safer than water. And we've done the horses, which I feel. I wasn't robbed of a round of applause on that one at all, was I? Because they do need to lie down to get proper Rem sleep. I know that because a lecturer in equine science told me. And was there a point at which people realized beer was safer than water? It seems unlikely, but you never know. If you don't ask, you never find out. And do feel free to challenge that answer I gave about bi weekly, although I think it was certainly not impregnable, but I think it was close to impressive. Thomas Watts is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 26 minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. Questions still in need of answers. I reminded you just before than you, so I'll just remind you the phone number now in case you can answer any of them. Zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of the questions on the board, all it's 26 minutes to one, so you've still got plenty of time to get your own question on the board as well. Bob's in Durham. Bob, question or answer? It's an answer. James, question. Carry on. It's an answer to your beer and the pump water. Right. You were absolutely right that it was John Snow who observed that people contacted. Was it cholera? I believe it was indeed, yeah. And he observed that. But he observed at the same time that the local brewery workers, who were literally across the road from where the pump was, did not get cholera. The reason being they drank the beer. And how do you make. Even though the water came from the same pump? The water was from the same pump. So how you make beer, it's called liquor, is the water. And you combine that with the. With the malted grain. Yes. But that's about. Between. About 60 to 70 degrees centigrade, which. And that. That doesn't actually kill the bacteria. It may do, but it, you know, it could still be there. But then what you do is you boil it with hops. Yes. To flavour the beer. And boiling the water kills all the bacteria. And that is. I have already corrected that, to be honest. Although you probably picked up your phone before I did. So. So the boiling rock, I said fermentation, it's the boiling process that would kill. Yeah, but is the bit about the broad. No, no, don't worry about that. I'm fascinated by the bit about the. So had it not been scientific, demonstrated prior to. Because that'd be amazing if it was down to Jon Snow. I mean, literally, as opposed to theoretically, the beer was part of the discovery with regards to cholera. Well, indeed, the water had been boiled, whereas the people drinking the pump water, they didn't boil the water. And you're right. Originally it was believed that. I believe it was. It was called malaria, it was bad air and it would be the workers in the brewery. And he'd have thought, well, hang on, why aren't they getting it? And they'd say, well, we don't really drink water, we only drink beer. We only drink beer. Yeah. Wow. It was small beer. Yeah. And so he saw what he realized then, that it was the pump water causing it all. Because originally, before that, people had believed that it was bad air. Right? Yes, they had. That's right, exactly. They had indeed, yeah. And so water borne disease, establishing that cholera was a waterborne disease was his. Indeed. That was it. And that. I mean, Lauren wanted a date. I already gave it to her. 1854 would be, I think, the year very long supplied in those days. Well, it's only because it's literally one of my favorite little spots in Soho. And there's a very nice. If you're ever in town, Bob, there's a very nice little spanish restaurant just over the road. Does an. Absolutely. Does absolutely delicious croquetas. What are your qualifications? I used to work in a brewery on a small scottish island. Did you? Yes. That sounds like fun. On the Isle of Arran. How delightful indeed. Yes, it was. Yeah. Was it just sort of special beer or was it just. Well, yeah, they do some very nice beers. Just normal beer, but yeah, you know. Should we share this round of applause or do you want it all for yourself? It's entirely up to you. I'll share it with you because you did correct yourself, but you weren't totally sure whether it was a boiling. I wasn't, no, I wasn't. But also, actually, no, you get this one because that bit about the brawl. There you go. That's all for you, Bob. That was absolutely fascinating. No, thank you. That's lovely. That. And it adds to the Jon Snow story as well. This is just. Just legendary stuff. Joe's in St. Helens. Joe, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right. Basically, when you get wind inside your body, like trapped wind or just wind in general, what actually happens inside your body that decides whether it comes out of your mouth or it comes out of the other end? Okay. So, yeah, so, I mean, what's the difference between a trump and a belt, really? Yeah, basically, like, what happens actually inside your body that decides where that gas is going to come out? It's probably pre and post digestion gases. Trink. Probably. But I don't know. Did you hear the caller earlier in the week, the farmer who is. He was telling us about specially bred breeding sheep? There was a farmer on earlier in the week. Did you know they're breeding sheep to make them break wind less? Really? Yeah. That was a fascinating call. You can get it on the website, Joe. I mean, I'm just presuming you've got a particular interest in flatulence. It's just something that was just pondering around my mind. No, fair enough. I bet everyone's wondered that at some point in proceedings. So when you've got wind, what determines whether it comes? You know, pardon me for being so rude. It was not me, it was my food. It just popped up to say hello and now it's gone back down below. Or Johnny fart pants. Which one is it? Zero. 345-606-0973 I like that. Tim's in lead. Tim, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Carry on, Tim. So it's the one about the cats and vitamin D. Oh, good. Because I think we had a very concerned owner about this one. Yeah. So cats don't absorb any vitamin D from the sun whatsoever. They get it all from the diet. So cat food is loaded up with vitamin D because they don't absorb it in the same way that humans do. I'd know this, because we. We've had cats all of my adult life, have got a cat now. It's actually lying in the sun on the balcony, funny enough, but we used to have to put sunscreen on one of our cats because he used to burn. Really? Was it a particularly short haired cat? Yeah, he was short haired and he was white, so his ears had that sort of pinkish tinge. And it used to get a little bit crispy in the summer. We used to have to put sunscreen on his ear to stop him burning. And we'd ask the vet, do they actually need the sun? And although they don't need it for vitamin D, there is some degree of thought that actually a lack of sunlight in cats can cause depression. Oh, no. Really? But nothing to do with a vitamin D. Yeah. Well, it might be a seasonal affective disorder or something like that. Or the feline equivalent. Yeah. Qualifications. I've had cats for 27 years. And so you've just looked into it. And also having the cat who was susceptible to sunburn would have focused on. So really, the vet deserves a round of applause, really, many years ago. How do you know? How do you know? You've had cats for 27 years? How can you be so accurate? You just work it out how old you were when you got your first one. Well, we've had cats literally from the moment that, all the way through when I was born, I was actually named after one of our cats as well. Your mom and dad named you after one of their cats? Well, yeah. They name me after a cat that actually was hit by a car a year before I was born. So I've never really asked them why they did that. And, I mean, has that affected you, do you think? Do you carry that thought with you a lot? I mean, Tim's quite an odd name for a cat as well. Timothy. Oh, no, it isn't. We had it. We had a cat called Timothy as well, actually, back in the day. Timmy, we called him. Yeah. I've never been called Timmy. Yeah. So that's. That's what. That's how I know. Just lots of experience. Absolutely fascinating. Round of applause for Tim. Thank you. Twelve, four, 20. 345-606-0973 so we've done the cats, we've done the bi weekly. Few complaints about the wind question. Max says, could you please not put such vulgar questions on around lunchtime? Some of us are about to eat. If you're about to eat, Max, you should be doubly interested in this question, because you'll be finding out why when you are done with your eating. Some gases come this way and other gases go that way. Zero, three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven. The referee and umpire question. Come on. Is it something to do with French? Is it the languages, the original languages in which the. In which the sports were played? We've done the beer, so we got time for a couple more questions. Why have I written down coins? Oh, and the coins question. Crikey, I forgot about that. Is it illegal to mutilate currency? Is it illegal to mutilate currency? And if it is, how come those machines at tourist attractions allow you to pay a quid to sort of mash up a penny and stamp a little motif on it, or a slogan on it? Charlotte's in Portsmouth. Charlotte. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the coin question. We were recently visiting the Spinnaker tower in Portsmouth and wanted to do one of the penny coins, and they had a little sign on it explaining that it's no longer illegal because of the coinage act, where there's now an exception for these tourist attractions. So for these certain things, there's now exceptions, which is why it's legal to do those. Do we know when that came in? I think it was around the seventies. Gosh. And prior to that, it was. It was illegal. But. But post that, it's not illegal there, so they must have had lots of questions about it, and they decided to put up a little. Fine. Yeah, I thought it was really sweet because we'd done different ones at the different museums all day, but that was the only one that had a little explanation as to why it wasn't illegal. Yeah, that's nice. We've got a bunch of them at home now as well. They are quite sweet, you know, but they're not. It's a weird one, Charlie, because they're nice commemorative sort of trinkets, but they've got absolutely nothing to do with the place that you visited. They're all identical, except for having stamped on it where you went, which isn't what you'd call a souvenir in the traditional sense, is it? Yeah, but I think it's really nice that you have a little coin that's got the symbol there you visited? No. And then they all look the same, but they're like a little collection. Yes. Yeah, you're right. My youngest has got loads of them, actually. She'll be delighted when I go home and bore her rigid with all the discoveries that we. Major fact about why it is now permissible, although I find it absolutely fascinating. And it's earned you a round of applause, Charlotte. Thank you. No, thank you. Lovely stuff. If. If I can persuade the producer, a week tomorrow from twelve, which is my last hour before a well deserved, I'm sure you'll agree, holiday. I want to do rubbish tourist attractions, because Rachel Venables, I don't know if you heard it today on the breakfast show with Tom Sawbrick, was down at this ludicrous mound that they built at Marlborough Arch. God only knows why they spent 2 million quid on a mound of earth, which originally they were going to charge you to walk up, I presume, so you can take Insta. Insta pictures, Instagram pictures at the top of it or something like that. So they were originally going to charge you to walk up it? Absolutely nobody was interested in that particular offer. So now it's free. But of course, even though it's free, it's still rubbish. And it just reminded me, I think it was in Great Yarmouth. Wasn't there a waxworks museum in Great Yarmouth? That was absolutely appalling. And it was so appalling. They didn't even pretend not to be appalling. They just changed the wigs on the waxwork. So the waxwork originally didn't look anything like. So say it was Prince William one summer, and then David Beckham became really famous, so they just changed the wig and it was David Beckham the next summer. I think it was in Great Yarmouth. I could be wrong. So we might. Because we don't very often allow ourselves to go full shallow end on the program. Full silly. But we might. A week tomorrow, for the final hour, depending on what else is going on, we might have a look at the worst and most ridiculous tourist attraction you have ever visited. Because Charlotte there, speaking about some lovely tourist attractions and reminding me about the thought we'd had of going in precisely the opposite direction. It's 1246. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Twelve fifty is a time. Squeeze in a couple more questions, looking also for some answers, chiefly to the question about wind. How does it know which way to go? Up or down? Referees and umpires done the coins. I think that's it. Gary's in Boston, in Lincolnshire. Gary, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Gary, when you're diffusing a bomb. Oh, yeah. Does it matter which wire you cut first? I like that question because I've often thought watching bond films and stuff like that, if it really was the case that you can tell which one to cut first by colour, then a clever bond maker would just change it around, wouldn't they? Yes. Never thought of that, but yes. So does it. What have you got planned, Gary? Got a big weekend on the horizon, have you? What you up to? Why do you want to know this? What's the. What's the. What's the real reason? What's the real reason? I'm not disusing any bombs this particular weekend. Okay. But you never know. You never know. That's the point about being in bomb disposal. You never know when the next call is going to come. But you need to do some swatting up before you go out to the. To the. To the scene. We shall find out for you. When you are diffusing a bomb, does it matter which wire you cut first? Zero. 345-606-0973 which I don't know if it speaks to the younger generation, that one, in the way that it speaks to my generation, it's almost an anxiety dream. Andrew is in Manchester. Andrew. Question or answer? So it's an answer. Carry on, Andrew. So it's the answer to the one about flatulence. I do apologize to anyone eating their lunch. It's only Max. Max is the only one too squeamish to deal with bodily functions at lunchtime. Carry on. So it really comes down to thinking of your gut from your mouth to your tail end as one long pipe. And throughout that pipe there's a couple of sort of stations of valves of muscle that stop things moving backwards and forwards. Oh, yes. So between your stomach and your small intestine there's a muscle called the pyeloid. And the air that we ingest when we eat, your stomach will keep that and will send out backwards as a burp. And then as food moves through and it's digested and the bacteria and you colon digest it, you'll produce gas that won't be able to move backwards in most people between the colon and small intestine and will come out as a little trouble. So burps are air that you've ingested while eating rather than gases that are released by the food being broken down. Predominantly. Predominantly. And the stuff that goes in the other direction. Which would also explain, not to put too fine a point on it, why burps don't smell as bad as the other emissions. Yeah. Yeah. That's such a beautiful answer. What was it called again? The pyola. The pylorus. That's the muscle to your stomach and small intestine, and then the ileocecal valve is the one between the small intestine and the large intestine. And so they're a bit like, you know, I mean, on the thing where you can squeeze something and the water won't come back into it. I forget what they call valves. Yeah, essentially, yeah. I love that. What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications, Andrew? I'm a. I'm a bowel surgeon. Haven't you got better things to do than ring me up and answer? That's a beautiful answer. It's a supreme qualification. There wouldn't be anybody in the world better qualified than you to answer that question, then, would there, really? No, I suppose not. No. No. Unfortunately, there are too many bowel surgeons in the world to earn you a Ray Liotta, but you certainly get a gold plated round of applause. Oh, thank you. No, thank you. Can I ask you a question? Of course. Don't laugh. Promise you won't laugh. Yeah, sure. And I don't want to get. I've started drinking occasionally. Or not occasionally, quite regularly. Fermented goat's milk in the mornings, and I'm convinced it's improved my digestion and my overall health. Is that likely or am I kidding myself? There's a lot of research coming out about our gut flora and how that impacts our wider health. And it could be the drinking that is changing the microbiome of the bugs that live in your gut. Yes. So, potentially. Oh, that's really. Here's the thing. You might want to take this for a lecture or something like that. I don't know if you're keen to make some progress academically. I don't seem to have had hangovers since I started drinking fermented goat's milk in the mornings. I don't know about that one. You've reached the limit of my knowledge. Oh, wow. Same here. So I just thought I'd let you know because, you know, if it pops up at a big, important medical symposium, you can be ahead of the curve there, Andrea, I want to give you that potentially. Just let me know how you get on. Coming up to 1255, you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues Bradley is in Leicester. Bradley, question or answer? Answer. Carry on to be. Which wire do you cut first in a bomb? Yeah. So the first thing you have to do is to disconnect the power supply. The way IEds are initiated is you have a small power supply and you have this. It's called explosive chain. You start off with a very small, tiny explosion, something like a spark that can be created from a short circuit or from the flint on a lighter. Right. That then initiates a slightly bigger explosion that usually goes into what's called detonation cord. Yeah. And then at the end of the detonation cord, you have the big main charge, which is like the big part of the bomb. So it's like a chain reaction then? Yes, that's explosive chain. So the first thing you need to do is to disconnect that power supply. That's going to be there too. That will create the very first, like, beginning part of the explosive chain. So the first thing you need to do is establish where the power source is and the wire coming out of that. Yeah, yeah. And then what you would do is, in real life, you would then set up something, we call it a shot, which will have something like a scalpel on the end. And you basically, it's highly pressurized water, because you can't. You have to use water. And then that will be, you walk backwards and then you fire it and that will basically, scalpel will just go straight through all of those connections and disconnect them. And if anything goes wrong, that's why you set it up and then you walk back to a safe place. You do that remotely. So anything you see in films where they sort of got like, you know, red, blue, green wires, I mean, that's just mostly, I think, just for drama. So, Biz, was it ever the case, do you think? Was it ever a bit more relevant than it is now? The red, blue green business, I mean, even it could have been when you get a lot more sophisticated ids that can be made, of course, I think the Oklahoma bomb was very sophisticated and was actually made by some. He was a bomb spatial expert himself. What are your qualifications, Bradley? I think I know. So I served in eleven EOD regiment, including tour of Afghanistan. Our team dealt with 55 IEDs over the six month period. Oh, you've made me go a bit funny, mate. I mean, that must be incredibly hard work, incredibly stressful work. Yes, it is, but it's always good to win. So, out of grand, I'd like to give you a Ray Liotta, but only if you feel it's appropriate. It's the highest honour I can bestow upon a caller to this program. Okay. I mean, I have to just say that I was not the actual bomb disposal expert. I was part of the Freeman team. But we all get trained upon exactly what you do. Anyway, a typical soldier already trying to pass the credit onto his comrades. Henri Liotta. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And a round of applause for Bradley. Great. Thank you, mate. That's a. That's one of the. I can't remember the last time in answer to mystery, I sent a shiver down my spine. But, but, but you just did. Thank you for that and for everything you do. Oh, Stuart's in Canterbury. Stuart, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. Stuart, you've got a minute. Otherwise Sheila will start getting antsy. Okay. Right. It's an answer to the sports question. Difference between a referee and an umpire. Yes. The answer is pretty simple, really. A referee, like football, rugby, etcetera. There's only one of you on the pitch. An umpire. There is always two or more. Even in hockey? Especially in hockey. Oh, yeah. Are you serious? It really is that simple. It's that simple. How many umpires are there in hockey? Two. Are they really? Yeah. Don't know why my voice went up, so I also looked at Sheila, folks. It was a bit sexist, isn't it? Why would she know more about hockey than she does about rugby league, for example? She probably would have done years ago. Well, there you go. Joining in now, things have. All right, random for qualifications. I'm a hockey umpire. Is there a senior umpire or are you both equal? You're both. You're both equal. Both. Both umpires. You live in league. It depends on the league. But, James, before I go, can I just say a special thank you to that guy disposal, because he does. People like that have dug me out of the poo in the past a few times. Are you joking? No, I mean deadly serious. Oh, man, you've just set me off again, haven't you? So you're literally on hold listening to somebody who would have defused or been in the team that defused ieds when you were on a tour of duty? Highly likely. It's been quite a show today, Stuart. Thank you, mate. That is not really how mischief normally ends, but goodness me, thank you for everything you do, both of you. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning. From ten. I don't know why I got so emotional all of a sudden, but I'm happy. Happy to be handing over to Sheila Fogarty.