Why don't you forget how to ride a bike?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh goodness, is that the time? Five minutes after twelve already and you are still listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You probably deserve an award, don't you, for that? Or you might have just tuned in because it's the only hour of the week that you like. Either way, or come one, come all, it is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And what I mean by that, very simply is you ring in with a mystery, someone else rings in and solves it. You're not allowed to look anything up, you know, obviously that would completely undermine the purpose of the entire project. But you are allowed to ask questions about almost anything except possibly dull motoring related issues. But even they can occasionally throw up an unexpected frisson of interest or intrigue. The number you need, and I've currently got, which is rare, for six minutes after twelve on a Thursday, I've got two phone lines free. The number you need is 03456. So 60973. Do I need anything else? I don't think so. I keep a tally of what has been asked in the hope of prompting you into ringing in with the answers. And apart from not being allowed to look anything up, I kind of. I mean, obviously I used to issue guarantees that you would have at least one laugh out loud moment by 01:00 today, and indeed that you would know more by 01:00 today than you do now. But those guarantees are just a given. Now, I think I haven't been asked for a refund for the best part of five years. Remind me to mention occasionally that the mystery out board game will be in shops hopefully by this time next week, but only occasionally, because you know me, I don't like plugging my own materials, my own product that's so unseemly. But I do know that it is brill because I've already seen a prototype and it is like a dream come true. Well, it's not even a dream come true. Is there a word for something like, you didn't even have a dream? But it came true. I never sat there thinking having a dream country was getting a couple of books published, having a board game dedicated to the most enjoyable hour of the week that we spent together. Who ever would have thunk it? But anyway, seven minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we get it up and running? Yes, we shall. John's in Bristol. John, question or answer? Hiya, Jane. Hello, John. How are you, mate? I'm all right, mate. Glad to hear. Bring it on. Why do the. Why do the Canada geese in our local reservoir stand on one leg when they come out of the water? I mean, it's not just in your local reservoir, is it? Well, no, but they do it all over the show and all over the show. And it's not. Is it just Canada geese or is it all aquatic? I don't know. No, I don't either. I don't. The particular Canada geese that we've got, they come out and stand on one leg. Is it. Are they warming up their foot one at a time? I don't know. Tucking it in the old feathers, giving it a bit of a warm up? No, they just. Well, they appear to be asleep, some of them. So, on one leg. Why? It's a very good question. We've probably answered it before. I don't know how old you are, John, but I'm of an age now where I can't remember what I had for breakfast, let alone whether I'm 70. And I can't remember this morning. There you are. I can't remember why you rang in. Luckily, you've already got the question out there, John. Well, fry me an egg. I've had a lot of feedback on that. Did you try it? I did, yeah. And it worked. Sheila tried it, but she shouldn't. Last Valentine's Day, my missus cooked me breakfast in bed. Two eggs on a plate with a sausage in the middle and a rasher of bacon underneath. A smiley face. Isn't that lovely? Yeah, but she didn't shake the egg, so it looked like. Marty Feldman, please. If you don't know what John and I are talking about, this was something that emerged last week that if you shake an egg not too vigorously, Sheila Fogarty ended up with an accidental omelet. She shook it so hard that the yolk actually broke in the shell. But if you give an egg a decent shake and then crack it into the pan, you get the yolk smack in the middle of the egg. And the number of people on Twitter that have proved this with photographic evidence is incredibly gratifying. But I would give a special mention. Thank you, John. I give a special mention to the gentleman who was running down by strand on the green in London's leafy suburb of Chiswick on. It would have been Saturday or Sunday of last week and he was running at full tilt. You know, normally joggers are kind of ambling along and then occasionally you get a bit of a serious jogger who's giving it a little bit of welly. And then every now and then, you come across someone who is like, you know, speedy Gonzalez. And he was one of those. And he shot past, and I occasionally see sort of, you know, I think that. And he comes back, he stops. So he sort of makes a little bit of eye contact with me, and I'm thinking, he's got his headphones on, but it's a sort of hello type scenario. And I'm like, hello. Always delighted to see people out in the wild. And then he stops and he comes back, not at full speed, all out of breath and everything, to say, your egg. That egg thing. That egg thing was amazing. He said, 30 years I've been frying eggs without knowing this trick to get my yolk smack in the middle. That's what I said earlier about this being public service broadcasting when I was talking to Bushra, the doctor, although she probably didn't have this sort of thing in mind. Geoffrey's in Wembley. Geoffrey, question or answer? Hello. There's a question. Carry on, Jeffrey. First time on mystery hour. Very excited. Yeah. So I'm a bad flyer. So whenever landing in the country, and it starts to kind of. The plane starts to shake a little bit, I look out the window. I find them this funny because I was just thinking. You mean on planes? So Keith and I. Keith and I got a very similar sense of humor. He started flapping his arms, and I was going to say something like, well, none of us are very good at flying, right. We're not geese, but anyway, you shouldn't have asked. Carry on. Well, yeah, so, yeah, I'm looking out the window just so I can see the ground, because I panic a bit. And I'm like, you can't see it because you're in the clouds, obviously. So I was wondering, because clouds are made of water, why is it that you can kind of. You can see through water, but you can't see through clouds? Yeah, but they're not. I mean, they're made of. They're kind of. They're not just made of water, are they? I don't know. That's why I'm asking. Well, there's. It's. It's water vapor that is mixed. Mixed with air. So think about. So it's just that. So, yeah, so it's not. It's not like a pocket of water. It's. It's water vapor, which is largely air, which means you can see through it, but not as clearly as you could if it didn't have the water vapor in it. But you can see through air. Yeah, but not as clearly as you can when it's got water vapor in it. Okay, so it's a mixture of both. Oh, I see what you mean. You mean you can see through water, but you can't see through clouds. Yeah, I've answered the question sort of upside down. Well, because water vapor is thick water. No, it's thick. The gas is thick. I mean, the gas has a different state from the liquid. So when it's a gas, oh, that might be it, actually. I should have listened. Science. I think it's a gas, isn't it? Is it water vapor again? Yeah, of course it is. So you have, I think it's called, you know, you've got those evaporation sublimation, all those chemical processes. And when water turns to steam or water turns to a vapor, it changes its state, and it also, its properties, therefore change. So it's a bit like asking, when I, when I inhale steam, why doesn't it quench my thirst? That's what you're asking? In a way, kind of. But it kind of does, doesn't it? No, not in the same way, on the same scale. All right, let me think of another example. It's a bit like asking when I, oh, yeah. Okay, so, so heat is a property. Oh, no, that's vapor, not steam. That doesn't quite work. I'm gonna leave it on the board. But I worry, I worry, Geoffrey, that this, this might cause more problems than it solves this question. Also, whenever I start leaping into fog, leaping into signs. Yeah. I mean, fog, you can take in a property of water. Yeah. And asking why that property doesn't apply to water vapor, which is, and I'm trying to be, but it's still h two o. Yeah, but it's not, is it? Well, it is. No, it isn't. It isn't. Because if you got a cubic properties change, if you got a cubic meter of water vapor right in the context that you described, like in the sky, it wouldn't be h two o, would it? It would be h two o plus o plus o plus h. I mean, it wouldn't be water water, because it's got other properties in it. Um, okay, no, I know. I wouldn't take this answer if I were you, seriously. So I don't expect you to, Geoffrey, I should. I've let you down. I've let Keith down, but most of all, I've let myself down. We'll try and leave that. But I don't hate these questions. So close, but still so far. Take care, Geoffrey. Peter's embarrassing. Edmunds. Peter, question or answer? Question, James. Hello. Hello. Okay. Bit of a thought experiment, James. If I were to dig a hole straight down through the middle of the earth, out the other side, I put down my spade and I jump in. What would happen when I reached the center of the earth? Would I go splat? You mean if you. If you were capable of resisting all the forces of physics and nature and heat and. Yeah, all of that kind of thing? Of course, yeah. When you reach the middle, the middle of the sphere, as it were, would you. Would you just carry on speeding through? Would you be. I mean, what. I mean, why would you just not pass through? Well, what if somebody jumped in at the same time in Australia, let's say? Do you know what? I don't know that. I'll put it. I just don't. I have woken up in the middle of the night thinking about this. Honestly, I'm not worried about it. No, I would love an answer. Yeah. All right. What would happen to you when you reached the middle? If we managed to bore a hole through the entire earth, what would happen to you when you reached the middle? Do you know? I don't think that question has made the board game, actually, but you never know, it might make the, what they call them, the supplementary pack. 1215 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1219 is the time. Mysteries in need of solutions include why do geese stand on one leg? Uh, how come you can see through water but you can't see through clouds and or fog? And if you drilled a hole through the center of the earth and jumped into it, what would happen to you? So, I know the answer to that, oddly. Or I thought I did, but I don't know why. So I'm leaving it on the board and I'm not going to spoil it with my own two penn'orth. Jonathan is in Staffordshire. Jonathan, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Jonathan. Okay, so it's the geese standing on 1ft. It's not actually purely just geese, it's majority of birds do that and they do it to retain body heat because obviously the bird's feet are just literally exposed skin. So they literally took a foot up so they can retain body heat. So it's not that they're warming their foot up, so to speak, it's just that they're turning off the tap of exothermic, or whatever the word is, of heat emissions. Exactly, exactly. That makes perfect sense. I kind of said that, but not quite qualifications. I actually like to say. It's not just geese. I keep hens and chickens and I've got hens for about three years and asked my vet why my hens do that and that's what she came back and told me. Absolutely perfect qualification. How many hens and chickens have you got? I'm currently in the coop as we speak. I've got three next to me. I've got Mabel and the other two are ex battery hens. So when I first got them, they didn't have a feather on the head. So once, bear in mind, these are all female. One's called Kevin because she looked like Kevin from home alone when I first got her. Love it. And the other one is called Chrome Dome because she's now got feathers but nothing on her head whatsoever. So we call it. We call a chrome dome. They're rescue chickens, so to speak. They are. They are expatriate hens. Yeah. So you've got a big old coop there, mate, if you can get in it yourself. It's probably about, I'd say about nine foot high and probably about 20 foot long. And you've only got three chickens in it at the moment. Yeah. They are living the dream. They're living the dream, those chickens, man. I know. Unfortunately we lost two a couple of weeks ago, so we'll be getting a few more. No, just the. Don't prolapse. But do you start a favor and don't google that. No, I did. I had a couple a while ago, we lost ours to a fox, but I did. I do know what that is and it's not. Yeah, you're right. It's not pretty, is it? No. So you're going and do the. Do the x battery ones lay or do they not lay? Yeah, yeah. They're about 18 months old, so they normally get rid of them after twelve months. So yeah, they're still laying one leg a day. Oh, how lovely. Made me all nostalgic for ginger and cherry, my chickens. That's a sad day, that, man. It was a. They have so much character. They really do. I loved it. Anyway, you've got yourself a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. I love that. Of course it is because the foot would just be a kind of tap of heat pouring out and you tuck it into your feathers and it keeps you. It keeps it sealed, as it were. Dan's in Manchester. Dan, question or answer? It's the question. Carry on. Okay. So in my office, I have some sunflowers. And I was just arranging nice. Yeah. And I remember that sunflowers open up and sunlight. Right. So I was wondering, they don't just open up, they turn to it. Yeah, I thought that as well. Right. So I can actually move. Yeah. Towards the sun. Yeah. How do. How do they do that if they've not got a brain? Well, I mean. I mean, you don't. I mean, lots of things haven't got brains that can react to light, haven't they? Like Keith. How does it move? Well, it mean, it. I mean, brain is a really misleading thing to bring into the conversation. It's not. I mean, in the same way that, you know, how does it draw water in through its roots if it hasn't got a brain? How does it end up yellow if it hasn't got a brain? And it doesn't? I mean, it's not the absence of a brain, that is. But it could actually move. Yeah, because it's moving to the light. It's the same reason that if you go into a forest, the trees, you know, in a thick forest, the trees will be long and thin, because they've got to try and get the light. But the same species of tree, if it was on its own in a field, would be shorter and wider. It's. It's explaining to me brains into it. How am I supposed to explain it? How. I mean, wise. So how does that. How does the sunflower know where the sun is? Is that what you're asking? Well, because it's hot and bright. How can it move? Okay, remove the brain bit and just have a question. How does a sunflower move? What are the logistics? Because with us, if we are moving, so our brain has to send message to a muscle. Right, all right. Yeah. You've done the brain bit again. All right. Okay. How does a sunflower move? Yeah, all right. And if it turns out I've been a bit unkind in my analysis of your question, I will apologize unreservedly to you, Dan. Okay. All right. How many have you got in your office? How many have you got in your office? There are, let's see, four. That's nice. Who put them there? You sound a little bit surprised to have found them in your office. Who put them there? I don't normally buy flowers, actually, but, yeah, they were on disco in a supermarket, which I saw not. That'd be nice, though. I bet your mood improves if I know there's anything wrong with your mood in the first place. Listen to me on the radio every day's a joy. But having a few nice flowers around the place, especially sunflowers. They just make you smile. Dan. Take care. Stay safe. We'll try and find out. Why do. How do sunflowers move? What would happen if you drilled a hole through the center of the earth and jumped into it? And why can you see through water but not see through fog? Jack's enculturist. Jack. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Jack. So it's an answer to the hole through the earth? Yes. So, first of all, if you jump through, you'd obviously get burnt up by the. We're ignoring the molten core. We're ignoring the molten core at the heart of the planet. Yeah, that little. Yeah, forget about that, mate. Details, details. The second thing is air resistance. So assuming you're in a perfect vacuum and that you can survive that you've got potential gravitational energy. So that would pull you through right to the center of the earth. And until you got to that point, the earth would be pulling you through. Once you get to that point, you've got enough momentum that you would get through to the other side and you'd essentially just hop out at the other end. But with air resistance, your momentum wouldn't carry you far enough because of your loss of energy, you'd get through and then you'd end up just kind of ping ponging until you ended up losing all your. All your momentum and just stayed in the center of the earth. It's not. It's more of a badoing badoing than a ping pong, isn't it? Yeah, absolutely. You become doing for quite a while for, I don't know, a millennium or something like that. I don't know. Yeah, probably. That's a lovely answer. So you'd end up suspended in the middle of the earth? Yeah. More or less still, essentially, yeah. Qualifications? Engineer. I've got a bachelor in engineering and I'm studying for my master's now. Have you ever. Have you ever been asked this question in a lecture? Not in a lecture, but I've looked at it before because I've been curious myself. Round of applause for Jack. Great work, mate. Thank you. Tony's in Portsmouth. Tony, question or answer? Answer. What's it? I can tell you what it is. To the clouds? Yeah, go on. To what? You can't see through clouds. Yeah. So when. When water evaporates from, like, all the sources, like the ocean and stuff, and goes up into the air, it returns back into water droplets? Yes. They're like micro. Micro tiny, tiny droplets. Yeah. And there's billions of them. So they're not a gas, they're actually water droplets and it's only one. They mix with particles and dust. They become heavy enough to fall again into rain. Right. And that's why you can't see through them, because they're water droplets. And there'll be all the reflection. All the reflection and the reflection on each drop. This is Wayne in Basildon's favorite subject and he's always banging on about it. It refracts light, same as fog. If you put your main beam on in fog, you're blinded. Yeah. Because the light's coming back at you. Yeah, of course. Back at you. Qualifications? Paramedic. That'll, uh. That. Well, no, that's got nothing to do with it. The qualifications doesn't mean, like what qualifications have you got? Otherwise we'd be here all day. What? There was a pub quiz and it was actually explained. The explanation was from Professor Brian Cox. That's what I want. That's what we come. That's your qualification. Came up in a pub quiz. Came up, professor. Came up a pub quiz and Brian Cox delivered the goods. Thank you very much, Tony. Round of applause for Tony. Other Brian Cox that I'm all about. I haven't watched succession yet because I was out last night, as you know, Jonathan Pye. So that's on the agenda tonight. A little bit of success. Probably the best television series in the history of television series. And I mean that sincerely. It might not be the best, but it's way, way, way up there. The words of the late, great Brian Clough. It might not be the best television series in the history of television series, but it's in the top 112 28. Phil's in. It's Paul, not Phil. I thought it was Phil Mill Hill, but it's Paul Mill Hill. Paul, question or answer? I've been called worse. It's a question. Carry on. Why don't you forget how to ride a bicycle? There are many other skills, like learning musical instruments or a foreign language that if you don't practice, you lose. But you don't have to ride a bicycle. I think you've just answered your own question, haven't you? It's a lot harder to play a musical instrument than it is or to speak a foreign language than it is to ride a bicycle. So it's just a number if you thought of riding a bicycle, in order to learn to ride a bicycle, you have to tick x number of boxes. It's only probably four boxes, isn't it? Keep your balance two boxes. Keep your balance pedal fast enough. How long did it take you to learn to ride one? What's that got to do with the price of eggs? Well, because it's a skill that you learn. Yeah, and then. And then you forget how to do it. You do it during a couple of days, don't you? Maximum. Once you're ready, physically ready for it, your dad takes your stabilizers off. You go down the park. Or if you're lucky enough, to have a big garden with my girls. We were in the park. Bish Bosch. You're off. First time. You don't have to redo that again 20 years later. No, because you've only had to tick two boxes. So if you learn how to play a musical instrument, and then you don't do it for 20 years, when you pick it up, you're not going to be back at scratch, are you? You're still going to have ticked some of the boxes. So think of learning to play the clarinet, Paul, as learning to play, let's say, george Gershwin's Rhapsody in blue on the clarinet. 58 boxes. You got a tick to nail that one, right? Beginning with, what buttons do I bloody press? And then where do I breathe? So all the simple boxes you start off with, by the time you get up to the 58th box, you're playing it like Gershwin himself. Are you with me? Not really. I don't think you've really understood the question. I have understood the question. It's because you never forget how to play a musical instrument at the simplest level. And riding a bike is really simple. We're gonna get the emergency tape in a minute. I had to interrupt you there. Goodness knows whose voice would pop up. All right. Okay, let's see if we. Let's see if we get a better answer than you do. You mean a better answer? You can't get a better answer than the right answer, can you? That's philosophy. All right, but I might be wrong. I doubt. And also, you know what will happen now, Paul? And it'll be all your fault. Someone will ring in and say, actually, James, I have forgotten how to ride a bicycle. And then what are we going to do, Paul, eh? Hey, Paul, Paul. Hey, hey. Well, then we'll know the answer. No, we won't, because the question is, how come you can't forget to ride a bicycle? Well, the answer is, you can't. That can't be an answer. If someone proves it, then the answer is, you can. No, the question is void. No, the answer is, you can. Well, let's see. Yeah, let's see. All right, there you go. 1231 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, the text making me laugh today. Thank you. I'll read a few out just to share the fun, share the joy. This is from Nathaniel and it is a masterpiece. Worthy, I would say, of Samuel Beckett himself. James, I forgot to ride a bike. And that is the end of my story. Thank you for this. Again, unsigned but with lots of emojis. Hi. I've had to text in because that was the funniest thing I've ever heard on the radio. Brackets about riding a bike bracket. Thank you, Laura. Embarking James, it's not that easy. My mum is 63 and still can't ride a bike. Maybe it's not that easy to learn. And finally, Marcin Harrow. I think he was referring to Professor Brian Cox, not the actor. Well, I said it's all about the other Brian Cox for me at the moment because I haven't watched successive flipping eck. Mark. Honestly, everyone's a critic. Pietro is in Edinburgh. Pietro. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Pietro. So, why is it perceived as rude to eat with your elbows at the table? Yes, I know this one. Excellent. Let's go. And you're gonna love it as well. I'm just building up some suspense. Oh, I'm ready for you. I think I. So, the reason. Don't spoil my fun. Well, go on, tell me the reason you're asking, but don't tell me what you think the answer might be. Just in case you're right and I don't get to look smug. The reason I'm asking is because I think I have the answer. But me and fellow students were writing our dissertation in July and we ended up losing a whole morning discussing this. Oh, okay, that's fine. We then did hand in, but debate going on that is going to be settled right now. Well, you worried me. Now, I didn't realize you were, like, students doing dissertations and stuff, because it might turn out that my thing is one of those mythy type explanations that turns out not to be true. But here is what I believe to be the case during our era as a major maritime nation. In this scepter, dial the practice aboard. Actually, was it on ships? Whether it was on ships or not. Right. Space used to be at a premium, so they would bring out what you and I, in the modern parlor would call a trestle table. So you'd have a sort of triangular shaped framework upon which you would lay a large, flat surface. Yeah, yeah, I'm with you. Now, imagine you were to put your elbows on large, flat surface and lean down with a degree of pressure. I'm imagining the entire table would go belly up, certainly, yes. And that is why putting your elbows on the table was considered to be. Well, was sort of a very bad thing to do. And as with many issues of etiquette, it segued effortlessly into a good manners scenario, as opposed to. So it's one of the few things that actually, because it's not like knives and forks and stuff, this actually has a logical route to the practice. I see. It's good. I must say. It's quite close. I thought I was quite close. What did you have? But I wasn't entirely. Where were you, though? What I had. What I had was I thought it was pirates. I thought it was pirates eating at the table on a ship would rock and make the table rock also. So pirates would have their elbows on the table. But because pirates are rude, it then became rude. Oh, I think yours is more charming, actually, but less logical. You wouldn't, because, I mean, there wouldn't be any non pirates at the table to see how pirates ate at the table. And if you manage to escape from pirates, I don't think you'd be spending much time encouraging other people to adopt table manners different from the pirates from which you escaped, not least because you'd be telling the story of your escape from the pirates rather than relaying their table manners to your friends, to your gathered of friends and friends, don't you think that maybe when pirates came to land and went to the pub or whatever, they ate with their elbows on the table and no one else did? And that's how we all know how pirates eat. Well, how would you know they were pirates? Oh, they look like pirates. Eye patches and birds on their shoulders and stuff. I like it a lot, but I'm having a round of applause for myself, thank you very much. Very, very much, Pietro. Lovely stuff. Good luck with the dissertation. If you're my age and you have similar taste in comedy, you can't hear the word dissertation without hearing Steve Coogan's character, Paul Calf, talking. Didn't he call his dog dissertation? Lewis is in. Tooting. Question or answer? Lewis. Hello, Lewis. Question. Carry on. So when you apply antiperspirant or deodorant, where does the sweat go. That's supposed to leave your body. It just stays in, doesn't it? Where'd it go if it stays in? Comes out in your wee or something like that. No idea. That's why I'm phoning in. So that's the answer? I think that's the answer. You just wee it out? Okay. Or you sweat it out? Do you get cheese sweats? Lewis, if you don't mind me asking. No, I don't think. Don't get cheese sweats. If I eat cheese. If I eat a really nice piece of cheese, I sweat through the pores that are just to the side of my nose and below my eye, would you believe? And it's not tears. It's definitely coming out of the skin. Okay. I mean, I've never really monitored yet. Sweat and water. Keep an eye on it for me, will you? Keep me posted. All right. So that's the answer. It comes out in your weed? Well, no, because I've got no qualifications, but I wouldn't be surprised if that was the. I mean, it's got to go somewhere, hasn't it? Eventually. So you think, where else? What are the most popular methods of removing liquid from. From the body? And I would lean towards. Towards wee. Wee. Cool. Well, I'm sure someone will phone in and give us the scientific explanation. Thank you very much. The definitive answer to the question. It's a nice question. Thank you, Louis. I don't want to know. Someone can ask next week. Don't waste time. This week. The difference between antiperspirant and deodorant. Is it simply a case of masking smells or stopping sweat? Do they do two different things or are they interchangeable? I know not. Saul's in Hackney. Saul, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Saul, what is the longest amount of time a baby can have a blank birth certificate for? Can you get a birth certificate if the baby hasn't been registered? Can you. I mean, can you register a baby without a name? Well, legally, how long can you wait to register a baby? Yeah. So the birth certificate is the red herring here. How long can you wait? Why are you asking? Are you having a big row? No, I was talking to my friends about our names and one of my friends was saying he was almost called Rafi instead of Freddie. Okay. And I thought, how long could his parents wait to make that decision? How long could they have continued the conversation? I like that there is a limit on it. It's a while since I had to go down to the. It's the town hall isn't it the registry office? I was hoping it might be one for you. No, I can't remember. I can't remember. I like that. What is the. I mean, somewhat. Everyone will know that. It would just be a question of who gets through first, because there'll be loads of people listening that have done it in the last few days. Nice one, Saul. I like that. Do you like your name? I don't know if you heard that phone in that we did earlier in the week after the word Nigel was discovered to be less popular than the word Lucifer. I wasn't gonna say anything, but it's actually sol. So. Parents? Arsenal fans, were they? Everyone says that it's solace. That's Salazar, not Solomon. I get it a lot. It's a cool name. I shall adjust LBC's records in case you ever ring in again. You will never, never again be called Saul. You will always be Saul to me. Thank you, Saul. Mind how you go. 1242 is the time. What's the limit on naming a baby? I think I did know that at one point, but. Hey ho, the wind and the rain. Rachel's in reading. Rachel, question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, my answer is about the sunflower. Oh, yeah? You know, moving towards light. Yeah. Without a brain. Without a brain. That was the mystery, wasn't? It's not about moving, it's about growth. And I think it's called heliotropism. Yes. And it just means that it's growing towards light in order to get the energy from the sun, in order to photosynthesize. So all plants do that. And we humans like it as well. On the beach. Hang on. I think you're wrong. Oh, sorry. I hesitate to challenge you. I might ask what your qualifications are first, and then I might wind my neck in. Just a teacher. Yeah, but what do you teach? Well, you might teach pe. Primary school. Yeah, I did pe. And pee. And dance, actually. Well, there's nothing wrong with it now. I feel bad. There's nothing. I know. No, no, sorry. I didn't mean it to go. Lord, this is awkward. I just meant when I said, penny, that it wouldn't have much to do with botany. That was all I was saying. Right. I've got an a level in botany. An a level? Yeah. Botany or biology. With botany included. Well, life science. Yeah, exactly. So not botany, then, was it? You were doing mammals and animals as well? Yes? Reproduction. All that malarkey. I know. Yeah. Well, listen, here's the thing. Misses. The sunflower moves in the course of the day. According to where the sun is. Yeah, it follows the sun through the sky. So it's not growing, it's following the sun. But in order for it to photosynthesize, like most plants, it will follow the sun to get energy in order to carry out the chemical process, which is photosynthesis. That asked me to do the chemistry. No, you don't need to do the chemistry. But that's not growing, is it? That's right. Oh, well, that's a lovely moment. So it needs sun to survive, would say. It needs sun to stay alive. Yes. And therefore it follows. I don't think it is growing in the normal sense, because once you. Sunflower, do sunflowers, maybe they grow forever. Actually. No, maybe you're completely. No, no, no. They die off. Yeah. But until they die, they grow. They don't stop growing. It's not about movement. I'm just saying it's about growth. And heliotrope. I mean, heliotropism was a strong play. Bit of Greek. Well, I don't know. I'll let Keith decide. Keith, what do you think? Yeah. Keith says yes. The man from Delmonic. Well played. Thank you. May I say sorry, James? You may. This is O level. This is O level biology. All right, clever. Or GCAC. And I'm showing my age when I got an O level as well, so that would be the last possible year you could do. That would be 1988. We'll say no more about it, Rachel. We'll say no more. In fact, we'll use the round of applause to segue neatly into the next break. Woohoo. 1245. Just interrupting the program to go live to Scotland Yard for a statement from the assistant commissioner for specialist operations. Tragically, last Friday, Sir David's dedication to his family, his constituents and his community and his positive impact on the lives of so many have been abundantly clear since his death. Specialist officers continue to support Sir David's family and all of our sympathies are with them. I would also like to recognize the courage and professionalism of officers from Essex police and paramedics for their response to the incident. As you know, last Friday, Sir David tragically died from serious injuries after being stabbed at a constituency surgery in Lee on Sea. A man was arrested at the scene. Since then, the Mets Counter terrorism Command has led the investigation. A large team of detectives have been working around the clock to find out as much as we we can about what happened and why. That work has included searches of a number of London addresses. Our advanced forensics teams have analysed digital devices and carried out a painstaking review of CCTV footage. I also want to thank witnesses and members of the public who have supported the investigation with information. As a result of all of that work, today, we have reached a significant milestone. Following the submission of a file of evidence to the Crown Prosecution Service, charges have been authorised. Ali Harby Ali, aged 25 and from north London, has been charged with murder and the preparation of Terrorist acts contrary to section five of the Terrorism Act 2006. Ali remains in custody and will appear at Westminster Magistrates Court this afternoon. We will continue to build our case. If there are members of the public who have further information that might help the investigation, I would urge them to come forward. Every piece of information in investigations like this is important and you will not be wasting our time. Please contact us through the anti terrorist hotline. It remains the case that no other arrests have been made and at this time we are not seeking anybody else in relation to this incident. There has been considerable speculation in the media about the background, history and motivation of the man now charged. I understand the interest in these questions and of course, they form part of our investigation. However, now charges have been brought, we will not be providing further information on any aspects of this case and I would strongly urge anyone interested in the case to exercise restraint when commenting on it publicly. We all have an interest in ensuring future court proceedings are not prejudiced in any way. I would also like to reiterate the request made by Sir David's family that their privacy be respected. I fully understand the significant impact that the attack on Sir David has had on his colleagues in the Houses of Parliament. We've been working closely with Parliament's own security team and with the Home Office to review existing arrangements for mp security, and that work will continue. Police forces across the country have been working with individual MP's to review their specific arrangements alongside this case. It's important for me to stress counterterrorism officers across the UK and the security service and other partners are working night and day to bear down on the threat from terrorism. Our communities play a vital role in those efforts. Every day, in front of information given to the public, given to the police by the public, helps our investigations. If you see or hear something suspicious, trust your instincts, contact the police, phone us or contact us in confidence online in respect of this investigation. Although charges have been laid, our work continues. And whilst it does, Sir David's family remain in our thoughts. Thank you. The police statement there on the charging of Ali Haab Ali with the murder of the MP, Sir David Amis, just coming to, you live there from New Scotland Yard. 1253 is the time you'll understand that we will call an early halt. Two mystery hour this week in order to reflect a little further on what we've just heard. And Rachel Venables will join us on the line shortly. I'll take a moment, if I may, to reiterate some of what you just heard. Because, and again, in the spirit of brotherhood and enlightenment, we often get asked on the program, why aren't you using that word? Or why aren't you talking about this? Or why aren't you talking about that? And the answer, I can only speak with certainty for myself, but I'm pretty confident I speak for all my colleagues on LBC as well. The answer will be observance of the law and a conviction that it is better to be safe than to be sorry. So verbs that describe an act, a criminal act, or even reaching for language that may seem logical to a layman can be quite problematical in a criminal and a legal context. So that's why the police officer we just heard from was at such pains to stress that speculation or talking about elements of this crime, now that charges have been brought, risks a contempt of court. And that, I mean, is best understood as something that a lawyer could offer up in court as a reason why the trial is not fair. Yeah, I think that's a fairly clear explanation, but I do, and I'm not being in any way snide. I do understand sometimes why you hear a report or you hear perhaps a conversation on the radio, and you think, why are they using that word? Or why aren't they using that word? Or why aren't they talking about this? And why aren't they talking about that? Especially with something where charges follow upon a very wide report, because some of the words that you query, the absence of post charge, would have been quite prevalent and commonplace pre charge. So it's just, it's almost always a legal, if not a requirement, then a legal concern on the part of broadcasters to be confident that we're not doing anything or saying anything that could constitute a future contempt of court. 1255 is the time. Rachel Venables is outside New Scotland Yard for LBC, and she joins me on the line. Now, Rachel, what can you tell us? Well, I can tell you, James, a little of what you already know, of course, that Ali Harvey. Ali, we have just had confirmation that 25 year old man, who's from north London, has been charged today with the murder of the MP, Sir David Amis. Who, of course, was stabbed to death at a constituency meeting at Belfast Methodist Church in Lyonsea on Friday. And Ali has also been charged with the preparation of. Of terrorist acts. And this is contrary to section five of the Terrorism 2006 act. Now, the charges were authorized by the Crown Prosecution Service after, of course, you can imagine police officers from the Mets Counter terror command have been working day and night ever since Friday to gather evidence. And we heard a little in that statement there from Assistant Commissioner Matt Jukes for the Mets specialist operations, talking about having gone through hours of CCTV, talking to witnesses, as well as searching a number of addresses and properties in and around London. They have passed all of that evidence over to the Crown Prosecution Service and they have authorised a charge. And Ali will remain in custody, as you'd expect, given the severity of the charges against him. And he is due before magistrates court at some point this afternoon, so we can expect to see that happen within the next few hours. So, confirmation there that Ali Habi Ali has been charged with the murder of Sir David Amos and of preparation of terrorist acts. And in a statement from the Crown prosecution service, Nick Price, he's talked about how they will submit to the court that this murder has a terrorist connection, namely that it had both religious and ideological motivations. And the final point, I think, to clarify or to remind the listeners is yet again, the Met police say they are not searching for anyone else in connection with that horrendous incident in Lyons Sea last week. Thank you, Rachel. Finally, what would be the expected time scale for the next stage of proceedings? Well, he'll appear in court today. That will be the first very short hearing. I imagine there'll be another hearing that will follow soon after, you'd expect, at the central criminal court, the Old Bailey. And then it'll take at least a month for things to progress. There'll be a pre trial, sort of. He'll be expected to, whether he. Please. So you'll be asked, does he plead guilty or not put guilty if it progresses to that, and a trial if that does happen, and we have to say hypothetical, be very careful here. That would happen, you'd expect not until the new year at the earliest. Rachel Venables live from New Scotland Yard for LBC, reporting there on the charges brought against the man suspected of Sir David Amis killing. 1258 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, and that draws proceedings to a conclusion for us today. We'll be back tomorrow morning, Friday morning, from 10:00 a.m.. I'll. Just remind you, because already there's some text coming in. There is never any hidden agenda or subtext to the choice of words that we use when discussing either criminal acts or criminal charges. It is always. If you're confused, then trust me when I tell you, it is always a case of trying our very, very best to be responsible. Time now for a paragon of responsibility. It's Sheila Fogarty.