How are we able to locate sound when it's coming from in front of you? - 22 Oct 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve. Hit those numbers now. You will get through. This is by far the busiest. Well, it's usually by far the busiest hour of the week, but the phones have gone a bit nuts this week, so actually there's quite a lot of competition. The simple truth of the matter, though, is the sooner you hit the numbers, the more likely you are to get your question on the board. Zero 345-606-0973 what's going on? This is the weekly. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not normally provided by your radio. It is an opportunity to be enlightened, to be educated, to be informed, or, if you're built slightly differently, an opportunity to show off the knowledge that you have already accrued. A who, a why, a where, a when, a wither aware for or a whence. Whatever yours is, I would like to hear it. Well, up to a point, we don't like dullness and I'm afraid the management's decision is final. Christy and Jess will politely invite you to move along and free up the phone line for somebody else if your question is adjudged to be a little bit dull. And we don't like repetition either, although that's an increasingly fluid route. Because we've been doing mystery hour for so long, no one can be realistically expected to remember everything we've done in the past for reasons of entertainment as much as education. You might enjoy the website. We've got a great database, a mystery hour archive over at LBC dot co dot UK, which is very rewarding and is often used to remind me that we've just accepted a question which has been previously answered. But we're all getting a bit older, aren't we? Our memories are among the first things, perhaps to fade. So it might not actually be such a bad idea to occasionally revisit a question that we've forgotten the answer to. Generally speaking, though, dullness and repetition are the reasons why you won't get your question on the board. If you've got a question, you think it needs to be answered, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Six minutes after twelve is the time. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then ring the number and provide it. I mean, that's really what it's all about. That's pretty much how things work. And it can be as serious. I mean, one of our regular, two of our regular contributors are both professors at british universities. But equally, you may well be able to answer a question that somebody else has asked because you saw it on the telly last week. That's what I like about it. The only other rule is you're not allowed to look stuff up, okay? You're not allowed to use Google or any other search engine or indeed a work of reference and encyclopedia. You're not allowed to use anything else except what's already in your brain. Because in our own tiny, tiny way, just trying to keep alive the notion of knowledge, as opposed to having facts at your fingertips, having actual knowledge in your nut. Let's crack on. I think Robin's in Cambridge. Robin, what's your question? Hi, James. I recently got divorced. And then you start filling out paperwork, not just necessarily against the divorce, but any sort of paperwork moving forward. And you can never seem to be single again. Once you're married, you're either divorced or if you're widowed. Unfortunately, you only ever seem to be. You can't be single. Never again. Well, you are, probably. I mean, why do you. Why do you want to be single again? Why don't you want to just be divorced? Because I'm single. I don't want to be known as. I just wondered if there was a legal reason. Well, there probably is, because it's just. You're just alerting whoever you're filling the form in four to the possibility that you might have other financial responsibilities that you wouldn't have if you were single. No, no. Just made it up completely. But I bet it holds a little bit of water. I didn't realize you had studied law at any point in your career. Right. I've studied everything at various points in my career. Not necessarily to qualification level. Let's find out. Why can't Robin just say single on official forms, on paperwork, not just ones related to his divorce? Why does he have to put himself down as divorced? Why can't he be single? I like that question, but I imagine I'm pretty close to an answer with the notion of it being indicative of other financial commitments or. I don't know. We'll find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that. Jackson Woking Jack question or answer question, please go on. I just want to know, why can humans only access certain parts of their brain? How do you mean? Like, I just think we're so far in technology and stuff. But yet people say we can only access a certain percentage of our brain. Weirdly, on that. Yeah. The reason I asked what. What you meant by that was that there's a story in the newspapers today about it being an urban myth, that we only actually use a small percentage of our brain. You obviously haven't seen that story yet. No, not at all. I'm just trying to find it now. This is not the most professional moment of radio that I've ever been part of. Jack, you keep talking. I'll just flick through the paper and see if I can find that story. Okay. Go on, mate. Tell a joke or something. Nothing rude. No, I won't be doing that. No, I just want to. I want to know, really, but I don't. I can't find the story. But, yeah, in terms of evolution making evolutionary sense, how could we have accrued any evolutionary advantage from something that we don't actually use? I don't know. I'll find the story, and I'll clarify the parameters of your question, and we'll get it answered for you as well. Okay. Why don't we use all our brains? Zero 345-606-0973 why do you have to put divorced on official paperwork? Why can't you put single? Barry is in Norwood. Barry, question or answer? Hello there, Jay. Question. It's very unimportant, but my daughter asked me the other day, dad, what's the inside of the elbow called? The inside of the elbow? Yes. Well, how do you know the outside is called an elbow? Surely it's all the elbow. Well, I don't know. That's where I fell down. And I thought, well, I thought I knew. I said, well, it's the elbow. It's the inside of the elbow. It's not all. It's not what you want. That's it. Inside of the elbow. It's not a technical description. The outside is definitely your elbow. Isn't your elbow. I don't know. The elbow is the hinge. The elbow is two bones with a hinge, and the hinge is called the elbow. So the inside and the outside are both elbows. They're both. Can I call it the vevo? And I'm like, well, no, you can't call it the veebo. I don't know what it's called, though, a veebo, because it makes a v as opposed to an l. What about the crook? What's the crook of it? Of an eye? Is that I won't accept it. I won't accept it. Well, you won't accept crook. You are a crook. Sounding by the noise in the background, you, Barry. He's got you for crimes against mystery hour. He's not going to sell any ice creams going at that speed. This is what Hammersmith is like, James, in the middle of the day. Well, tell me that's my manner. Okay, we'll find out. The inside of the elbow. I like crook. But you don't. Okay, that's fine. And the brain and the divorce. Brains. It was natural history. Last week, all the flavors had a. Had a natural history. All the questions had a natural history flavor. This week it's leaning towards human. Human anatomy. The brain and the elbow already on the list. Admittedly, why you have to put divorced on official paperwork instead of single doesn't have much of a biological angle. Brains, elbows and divorces. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, we'd like to get the answers on as quickly as possible so that we can move on with more questions. Debbie is in Chingford. Debbie, question or answer? Question, please, James. It's all right, I've got another bodily themed question. My son is currently working on the underground and he came home last night and said, why are the wheels beneath a carriage of a train called bogey? Oh, yes. How old is he? He's nearly 22. He's 22 and he comes home and him and his mum have a little giggle about bogeys. Well, we all did. Yeah, fair enough. Carry on. So nobody can answer the question? I'm hoping you can. Nobody ever will. We've had this one before. It's not the name of the wheel, it's when you've got a sort of like a group of wheels all stuck together, isn't it? The bogey is like a trolley with four or six wheels on it. That is called a bogey. Like a wheel base. A wheel base would be the technical term for it. And nobody knows. It is called a bogey. But we don't know why. Nobody knows why. We've had it before. It's a word of unknown origin. I will, however, put it on the board. Why? Why are wheel bases on trains called bogeys? Just in case we could solve the mystery in a way that the etymologists haven't been able to so far. Have you stopped giggling yet about saying the word bogeys on the radio? She's gone. Was it a dick and Dom? No, she's. Have you stopped giggling yet, Debbie? Yes. No, you haven't, have you, Debbie? What do you do today? What do you do today? I rang the radio and said, bogeys 1213, you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. That was a dick and Dom game, wasn't it? This is not going to be irrelevant to everybody listening, but they had. They used to compete with each other in places where you had to be silent to say that word, that b word that we just heard at increasingly higher volumes. So in library. I mean, it is one of those moments as a dad when you actually, if you are like Debbie and me, a little bit immature still, you actually, the first time with your children, have tears of laughter running down your face, and dick and dom just escalating the volume of the rude word. Ever since it was big, it was that. Why am I asking you lot? You don't know anything. 40 minutes after twelve, Hazel's in Hammersmith. Hazel, be careful. There's a police car going very fast just around the corner from where you are. Question or answer? Thanks for the warning. Hello, James. That's an answer. Excellent. What is it? It's an answer to the question about the elbow. What is the inside of the elbow called? It's the anticubital fossa. Pardon? Antecubital fossa. Anti. With an e. Yes, as in anterior to be in front of. Anticubital fossa. F O S S A. I thought you were talking about James the engineer for a minute. Anti cubital fossa. Just stay there, Hazel, because Alan is in southwark. Alan, what have you got? Well, that may be right in a technical term, but same as your finger or toe might be a metatarsal, but it's still a finger. It's the crook of your arm. You're out of the game, mate. You can't come on the radio and start challenging anti cubital fossils. You are. It's an anti cubital fossa. Everyone knows that. What sort of a fossa are you? Yeah, well, it's the crook of your arm. Well, I'm going back to nurse Hazel. It is actually also called a crook, hazel, isn't it, in sort of common parlors? Oh, yes, definitely. And I think if you said the crook of your arm, the crook of your elbow, everyone would know what you're talking about. But we have, I mean, double bubble trouble for the child who asked the question of their dad. He can not only sound clever by saying anti cub. Going to be very careful how I do this. It's all gone a bit north. Kent Hunt and anti cubital fossa. But it's also true to call it a crook. So, Alan, Hazel, let me introduce you. Say hello to each other. Hello. Hello, Hazel. I'm just going to let you share this round of applause. Oh, how delightful. It's tough. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 20 minutes, chapter twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery are underway. Why? Why can't you be single on official forms after your marriage has broken down? You've become divorced. Why can't you just go back to being single? You have to put divorced. We know what the inside of the elbow is called. Why don't we use all of our brains? And what was the other one? We've got another question as well. It will come to me. Sam is in Streatham. Sam, question or answer? Question. Thank you. Carry on. Sam, does the animal have to be below a certain number to be classed endangered? Ah. How old are you, Sam? Nine. My nine year old is very similar to you. She's fascinated by those sort of things. You don't. You joined the WWF? No. It's worth it. You should look into it. Tell your mum. It gets in a great magazine and it's full of fascinating information which, if I'd bothered to read, I might have been able to answer your question. So when an animal becomes officially endangered, has it sort of crossed a threshold? Has it reached a certain number? Yes. That's a brilliant question. Is it half term at the moment? Yeah. Enjoy it. First day of half term and you've got through to mystery. What an absolute treat. We'll get an answer for Sam if we can. Is there a number, a threshold that needs to be passed? There must be. How do you decide when an animal has become officially endangered? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that. Ricardo is in Felton. Greetings, Ricardo. What would you like to say? Question. I have an answer. I have to say I've been listening to mystery art for nine years and it's probably my first round of applause. I'll be very excited. I now say that again because a lot of people listening might be feeling a bit downcast. They might have been listening for. Has it been going that long? Yeah, back in the day before. I can't even remember, man. It's a long, long time back in the old quiz of the weekdays. Quiz of the weekdays. You should get. You should get out more, Ricardo, seriously. Okay, so just for people who feel that their ship has never come in. I don't want to over egg this, Ricardo, in case you. It's exciting. It's exciting. But you might muff it up now, mate, because we've made a really big deal out of it. It's the brain question. Go on, then. Why don't we use all our brain? Okay. We actually do use all of our brain. The idea what's happened is we're not allowed to send enough sugar to all of our brains, so we can only use between, like, ten and 16% at once. Which is why the idea of multitasking is physically impossible, because we can't send enough power to the parts of our brain to enable it. We can only divert the sugar evenly, which is why we do use. Just not all at the same time. Qualifications. I stumbled across that on YouTube. I think there's a company that do, like, kind of animations to pop culture questions and things like that, and that was on there. I'm genuinely worried the professor is going to steal my round of applause. So can I have it first? No, you can't have it until we've established whether you're right or not. It was a very legitimate source on YouTube, for what it's worth. Company's called we are together. Yeah, I think you're right, actually, because it is. It's an urban myth that we only use parts of our brain or that we have huge parts of our brain that we never use. And the reason why we don't use all of it all the time is because we don't have. I mean, it's a very sophisticated organ and we just don't have the energy. Yeah. If you're wrong or subsequently miss sort of disproven, what forfeit are you going to do? How are we going to get the round of applause back? You have to come around and take it from me. I think I have to come around the turtle. That's just fighting. Sort that. Ricardo. Give him a round of applause. Let's just keep your fingers crossed. Is that worth it? Yeah, man. That was awesome. Great work, Ricardo. Mind how you go. Jill's in Stanmore. Jill, question or answer? Oh, we'll try and do something about that phone. Jill, you. Sounds like you're radioactive. We need to look into that. Fix up the phone line and we'll talk to you imminently, I promise. If you've now got the hangar, mister, are you listening for the first time? Got a question that you want to get on the board. Remember, as soon as I say goodbye to somebody like Ricardo, it potentially, but very, very briefly, frees up a phone line for you. Daphne is in Chelsea. Daphne, question or answer? Oh, hello. James, it's a question. First time on the radio, whatever. Ever, ever, ever. What if you turn out to be a massive natural and you could have had a whole career. You could have been the Chris Moyles of Chelsea. Anyway, listen, being Welsh. Yes. Wondered why we are just as opposed to the other three. Scotland, England, Ireland. Why are we just Wales as opposed to welsh land? And the same goes for the nationality and the language. They've got an ish. We haven't got an ish. English, Scottish, Irish. Well, Gaelic. Gaelic's an ick. But I know what you mean in the english language. It's called Irish. Yeah, we're just Wales and Welsh opposed to the others. Up. It was originally. It was originally in anglo saxon times. It was wailish. Yeah. It was whaleish. Oh, ba. It's true. Sure. I played tennis with my wife at the weekend. She said I was looking a bit whaleish. I'm not as green as. You're not having that. It's not as green as the valleys, are you, Daphne? Do you know what? If it turns out to be true, then I don't know. I want to buy. You've got to buy me an apple or something, Weylist. No. Why? Oh, and another little adjunct question. Our flag is the only one not on the Union flag, but can you imagine a big dragon stuck in the middle of it? That's not. I mean, that's an observation rather than a question. You have your own princess. Scotland and Ireland don't have their own prince. So, you know, it's always swings and roundabouts. This is a give and take, Daphne, so I know and I know, but the main question still. The land and the ish. Well, I'll give you the land. I'll put the ish on the side. You're only really allowed one question, so we'll go. It might be yes, which is why I'll allow it. But why isn't it. Why isn't it welsh land? Yes, welsh land and welsh land or Welsh ish. Welsh land or Welsh ish? Welsh ish. Yes. Welish. Welsh. We are Welsh. Welsh. Well, in. All right, then. All right. Oh, you went very Welsh then at the end. It's on purpose. You went Max Boyce there. God forbid. We've got to get you an answer now. You're so delightful. Get an answer for delightful, Daphne. Why is Wales not Wales land and why is Welsh not Welsh ish? Jill's in Stanmore. Jill, question or answer? Yes, it's an answer, but it's sort of. It sort of leaves it wide open. It's about the divorce guy. Oh, yes. I'm a widow and I've been widowed twice, and I still have to put things, I still want to put single on forms, but I can't because it's a legal requirement. You have to put widow? Yes. And I don't feel a widow because I've got a boyfriend. I'm completely independent, but I have to because I'm in receipt of widow's pension and I've got children and grandchildren and young. Making a false representation. I think. I think that's the reason this guy. Sorry, go on. No, you carry, you're much more interested than me. You carry on. This guy, the divorce guy, might well be paying maintenance for his ex wife. We don't know this, do we? No. That's what I thought. It must be. It must just highlight the possibility of financial and legal responsibilities that do not apply to single people. Yes. Yes. And another interesting thing, I don't know if I should say it on your program, but people who are widowed can have relationships with people perfectly okay. And they're not committing adultery. That's what. It's rather difficult for widowed people to get into their heads. What, you mean on a sort of religious level? You can't commit adultery on a. What? On a legal level? On a moral level, yeah. Well, why would anyone think they were committing adultery if you don't have a spouse? If people. Because this is my, my thing about being a widow. Be married to somebody for a really, really long time. Yeah. It's really quite difficult. I mean, I know we're going off the subject, but it's really long time to form a relationship with somebody else and quite difficult for some people. Just an, aside from the wealth of my non experience, what are your qualifications for the, for the, for the answer, the original answer. Just, just being a widow and having similar experiences. Yeah. You put me in a very difficult position, Jill. Why? Well, I'm not sure I can give you a round of applause. I don't need a round of applause. Didn't you hear Ricardo in Feltam? It was the highlight of his year. Because I think you're just doing what I did and you're just sort of working it out and speculating. We're almost certainly we're right between us, but we can't prove that we're right. Sure. We can't go definitive. No. This is the very first time I've ever rung in. I've listened to your program lots of times, but I thought this is something I know about. I live it all the time. I have a round of applause, then you go. Flattery will get you everywhere. Thank you very much, Jill. Drive carefully. It's half past mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 25 to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why are bogeys called bogeys? Not. Not the contents of your noses, but the names of the sort of wheelbases, the short wheelbases under trains are called bogies. I've had one answer to that. That's absolutely brilliant. But I think it can't be true because of timings. I'm pretty sure bogeys were around in the 19th century. And the inspiration for your rhyming slang answer was not around in the 19th century. What else is still on the board? What else are we still looking to have answered? Wales. Why is Wales called Wales and not, for example, welsh land? Why is Welsh called Welsh and not, for example, Welsh ish? All the other home nations, lands. Ireland, Scotland. England. Why is it not Wales land? So bogeys and Wales. Is there anything else I've forgotten? So amateurish. This isn't. It's ridiculous. I think we've had. We think we've nailed everything else, haven't we? I think we have. Glenn's in danger. Animals. Young Sam. We've let down young Sam. Is there a threshold at which a species becomes or what is the point at which a species becomes officially endangered? So, bogies, whales, an endangered species. Glenn's in Basildon. Glenn. Question or answer? Arthur James. It's about the welsh question. Bring it on. You were bang on the money. Mate is the anglo saxon word for foreigner, or waalish, as I refer to it. Back when. Whale ish. She laughed at me. Daphne in Chelsea, when I said that, she laughed at me. Yeah, yeah, I know, I know. She's not the point. But the trouble is, when the Anglo Saxons invaded, they weren't a united people, and England itself was divided into a series of kingdoms, of course. And so not all of the kingdoms had the word land in it. And obviously, the Welsh being the foreigners they were fighting, well, they just called them the Welsh, or the Welas, plural. It's also related to the world. Cornwall. Cornwall or Cornwallis is the anglo saxon term for the welsh order. The south Welsh or the Welsh of the peninsula. Mate, you're playing a blinder. Do you want to carry on? You got anything else? Yeah, yeah, sure, sure. Wallachia in eastern Europe is actually because it's also a germanic origin. It's also another germanic from. Of foreign land. And the language Welsh, that's just the way it evolved. It's. It's. It's not got an answer in the way that. No, I mean, the Welsh themselves, that they call themselves the cymru, which means the comrades, you know. So the Welsh itself is purely Anglo Saxon. It's the word we gave their language. Yeah. And it was almost. It was almost like they were treated like second class citizens when they were conquered on the mainland, because obviously if you were born Welsh, you automatically considered five. So it was quite a brutal period for the Welsh in that point. And. And offa. King Arthur. Yeah. Of melchior. Yeah, yeah. Well, king of Mercia or mercier, it's pronounced in Anglo Saxon, actually means like putting a penny in the slot. Well, he built his dike, of course, to keep the Welsh out. Yep, yep. Because the Welsh were continuously raiding into english land at the time and the English were continuously raiding into the welsh land at the time. But to be fair, the Welsh would try to take their land back. I mean, one of the welsh words for England is ploy gar, which means the lost kingdom. What are your qualifications, Glenn? I spoke to you before. I've been learning to speak Anglo Saxon. I know. We haven't spoken for a while, have we? How are you getting on? No, I'm good, yeah. I'm sort of on and off studying it and that. And the battle reacts and stuff like that. Can you say you're listening to James O'Brien in Anglo Saxon? All right, what about here? Is James O'Brien here? Be our Iamis Aubreyon. That's one of the best things that's ever happened to you. Well played, Glenn. That's just genius. No, thank you very much. Yamis O'Brien on LBC. Cameron's in Basingstoke. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question, please. Go on, then. How do we look? How does our ears locate the sound if it's not coming from the right or left? How do you mean? Obviously, if you hear something from the left, then the left ear will hear it slightly earlier and it's going to be slightly louder in the left one than the right one. But that doesn't apply if the sound is coming from right in front of us or right behind us. So how do we know it's coming from in front or behind? Yes. Is it be the shape of the. I've got. I'm having a moment, Cameron. I'm having one of those moments I worry about. I'm having one of those moments where I'm torn between thinking this is a question of untrammeled genius or a question of quite spectacular idiocy. Well, I guess it's one of genius one. Well, you would say that. You asked it. Yeah. How do we know where. If we close our eyes, how do we know if something's in front of us or behind us just from using our ears? When theory. It's going to have something to do with the shape of the ear, isn't it? I don't think so. It would be the same sound from the front, behind us. Maybe the volume will be different, but you can't distinguish until you hear both of them from both sides. I think I'm leaning towards. I'm leaning towards genius on this question, Cameron. Correct. But, I mean, obviously, I reserve the right to return to the conclusion of idiocy once we've heard or canvassed for answers. How do we know whether a sound is coming from behind us or in front of us? Yeah, you're on. Okay, ears. So we got bogies, we've done whales, we've got endangered species and now we've got ears. Zero. 345-606-0973 need some more questions. Juliet's in Streatham. Juliette, what's your question? Oh, hello there. We've just come back from Rhodes in Greece. Did you send me an email complaining that you couldn't get through? I wasn't complaining. Here. I'm sorry to bother you. I think I'm on your list of people who can't ask questions. Juliet, you moved me with that plea. Oh, I thought I'd upset you. You haven't upset me at all. I think. I think. I imagine that the girls decided your question was a bit boring. That's why I didn't get on. It's got nothing to do with a sort of heritage or a history of alienation or offence. Oh, good. I'm glad. I'm really glad. So, I made them ring you because you left your number in your email. I made them ring you up because I didn't want you feeling left out. I didn't necessarily mean that they should put through your rubbish question. Oh, do you not want? Well, I don't know. I don't know what it is yet. I don't know what it is yet. Shall I give it to you and then you can say if it's rubbish? Pressure's on now, isn't it? Okay, all right, here's the question. Yes, we've come back from Rhodes. The family from a holiday. And in Rhodes, there are masses of fur shops, big, huge supermarkets selling fur coats and all those sorts of things. And it's because it's hot there. We don't understand why. And my husband says it's the Russians, but I don't know what that means. What's the Russians? And I just wondered if anyone knew. I mean, there's literally loads of them. Big, big hypermarkets. I like the sound of your husband. I can't believe that you disrespect him so much. If he says it's the Russians, it must be the Russians. Ok. It's like, maybe I need to give him a round of applause. We'll find out. But he thinks that the Russians holidaying in Rhodes are buying fur. It still doesn't explain why you'd have so many fur shops in Rhodes, does it? No, no. And I. We didn't meet any Russians, so I'm not even sure there's many Russians holidaying there. Well, what was your husband talking about, then? He didn't meet any Russians. How can they be the reason for all the fur coats? So they're like proper fur coats, the sort of things that we don't really see on british streets anymore. Yeah, because outside of the. On the shop front, as you drive along the road, there's models wearing these. Nice models, men and women wearing the fur coats. They're definitely selling fur coats. And you're sure there's a preponderance? There's a proliferation. There's a particularly high amount of them. Yeah. About as many sort of same fish locals as there are here. I mean, really, how many times have you been to Rhodes? Rhodes, anyone? That was the first time. I was just trying to wonder whether it was a modern development or whether Rhodes has always had a plethora of fur shops. I don't. I mean, it might be on every greek island. I don't. And it's not on every greek island, I can tell you that categorically. Where. Where. Where does roads sit on the globe? Where is it near? Because in the way that Crete is very near Africa. Where is. Which bit of the sea is Rhodes in? Can you. You've got me there. Yeah. Me. My geography is shocking. It may have something. You've just been there, though. I mean, you've got less excuse than I have on not knowing where it is. I know, right. We'll find. I love that. I love this question, for the record. Yeah, no, I really do like it, actually. Brilliant. But if it turns out not to be true, you're in all sorts of trouble. Juliet. What if it turns out not to be the Russians? No, if it turns out that actually there aren't that many fur shops, you just probably had a few too many. You had a few too many Uso's at lunchtime, and we're seeing double on your way home. No, I promise. Thank you, Julia. Okay. Thank you. No, thank you. It's 1243. Ian's in Cobham. Ian, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's an answer to the ear question and how you can find out where a sound is coming from. Oh, yeah. Yes. I mean, you were actually on the right track. The ear itself, the pin of the outer ear, has got a certain structure of cartilage which funnels sound into the ear canal. Yes. And depending on where the sound is coming from, the sound is funneled in. So, for example, if you've got a sound on the left, the left ear will hear it slightly louder and slightly quicker than the sound waves that then get round to the right. And the brain learns. So, because the questioner would now say, but how do you know? Because it might be a bit quieter, but you still won't know whether. But the brain actually learns the difference in tone. The differences in sound? Yeah, I mean, in the inner ear, you've got sort of sound going up to the auditory processing sensors, which are on the left and the right sides of the brain. They compare and contrast in about three thousandths of a second. But to answer the caller's question, a sound in front, if it's directly in front, it will be heard by both ears at the same time. And so the altitude processing centers know that the sound is, if you like, either in front or behind, as far as the difference between whether it's in front or behind, that's really down to the actual volume, and also the way that the sound is funneled into the ear canal. Could you make a mistake? Could you think something was in front of you when in fact it was behind you? It's possible. It depends on whether your memory tells you the expected volume of the sound. It doesn't happen very often. And echo, I suppose Echo can play a part in it as well. Qualifications? Ian. Hearing aid audiologist. Can't say fairer than that. Nicely played. 1245 is the coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Why are you more likely to die at the weekend in hospital? Is it, as Jeremy Hunt thinks, down to stuffing levels, or is it a lot more complicated than that? Your experiences from one leading Britain's conversation, Sheila Fogarty. This afternoon from one on LBC. Ten, two. One is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery air nears its conclusion with a few questions still in need of answers and a few places on the board for a couple more questions. It also happens in Crete. So this plethora of fur coat shops, fur shops that Juliet witnessed on a recent holiday in Rhodes. I completely, you know, got about 30 texts saying, I've just been to Crete. It's the same there as. Well, I was in Crete last summer. And do you know, now you come to mention it, I think I do remember. The problem is, when you're on a family holiday with two kids under ten, fur coats are not really very high up on your shopping list. Why would greek islands, particularly the biggest ones, roads and Crete, why do they have so many fur coat shops? We also want to know why the wheel carriage under a train is called a bogey and what makes a species endangered. Okay, what makes a species endangered? That's for nine year old Sam in Streatham, so it'll be a lovely start to his half term if we can get that answered for him. Ronnie is in Liverpool. Paul. Ronnie, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Ronnie, how long exactly is a generation? I know this. Do you really? Yes, I'd love to know. A generation is defined or determined. There's no sort of scientific definition, but it's the distance between being born and becoming a parent. So the number of years that pass between you being born and you becoming a dad on a sort of loose average. So for our society at the time. At the time now, a generation is about 25 years. But if you went back to when life expectancy was shorter and people had families younger, you'd probably go for closer to 20 years as a generation. But the general measure is an average lifespan between birth and becoming a parent yourself. Oh, yeah. Does that mean, like, if people keep on having kids younger and younger, a generation is going to get shorter? Yes, but it would be an average, a social average. And these days we're actually going in the other direction. The gap between being born and becoming a parent is getting. Is the biggest it's ever been in human history. So generations are actually getting longer. Oh, wow. I wouldn't have expected that. How about that, eh? No. Yeah, thank you. No, thank you. Because I didn't get one of these yet today. Cheers, Ronnie, mind how you go, mate. George is in Ealing. George, question or answer? Question for you. Yes. Why? Why is it when you go to the supermarket and you go down the fruit aisle, all the apples and pears, etc, are sold in plastic bags. Yet lemons and oranges are sold in netted bags. Yeah, it's a good question. Yeah. See, I've got you. Yeah. No one's gonna answer that one before 01:00. You don't know that. I do. I put a fire on it and we can donate to your favorite charity, if I'm right. All right, let's clear the phone. I'd clear the switchboard. I want every phone line into the building free. Why are citrus free? It's not just oranges. You get lemons in a netting bag as well. Lemons are in a yellow bag and the oranges are in an orange bag. And I thought was to help blind. Blind people. Of course it isn't, is it? Because they wouldn't know the colours, would they? Well, worked out, George. Well, you know, I'm. You know, I don't like to brag too much. Just as well. Let's get an answer to his question. Why is it just citrus fruits in netting bags? I got a good mate who's actually a greengrocer, I hope. I don't think he's ever rung in, though. If you're listening, Andreas, this could be your moment. If, you know, I need to win that fiver. Ryan is in Sandhurst. Ryan or answer. Answer. And it's Brian. Oh, I do apologize, because I have the opposite problem to you. I get called Brian all the time, and it's not my name. You don't get called Brian and it is your name Brian in Sandhurst. Question or answer? I have an answer to the endangered animals question. At what point do they become endangered? And I believe it's at the point when they are dying off quicker than they are reproducing. No chance. Yeah. No. So you could have. So if you got 10 million of a species in 2014 and 9 million in 2015, it's endangered, even though there's 9 million of them around? Yeah. Over a period of time. If they are dying off quicker than they are now, just giving you an example. There's still 9 million of them. They can't be endangered. They're flipping everywhere. There's just not as many as there were yesterday. No, they wouldn't be considered endangered. But they would fit your definition of endangered, though. No, if they die. Yeah, if they. If they're dying off at a regular rate of more than they are. But they had. They had the. Surely the definition of endangered has to be the point at which there's a genuine danger of them disappearing forever. And if it's just gone down a bit over a period of time, there's no danger of them disappearing forever. No, if they're going down, if I were you, Brian, I'd probably leave it now. But it can't be because there's 9 million of them and you're saying they're endangered. Well, yeah, if you're considering that there'd be 9 million of them, they'd be endangered, but they're not. It can't be endangered if there's 9 million of them. Obviously, there's. There's less of everything wild than ever before, probably. Well, if you're right, I'll have a slice of humble pie and I think I'll buy it with the money that your man owes me for the oranges. Question. Dave is in Bromsgrove. Dave, question or answer? Hello, James Anthur. Go on, then. The apples and pears are in plastic bags because you can eat the skin and the oranges and the lemons are in nets because you don't eat the skin. So handling the netting, it won't affect the fruit. Qualifications. Dave. I do the shopping in our house. That's a. I think that's a brilliant answer. That'll be it, won't it? We're up the Harriers as well. Crikey, just up the road. Are you in? Are you from Bromsgrove? Are you from kidney? No, from Brums. Go. But you support. Do you support the Harris or are you just. Yes, I do. What is going on, mate? What is going on this season? Well, it looks like we're going to be relegated. It does. Well, unless this. This fella, is it Huckaday? Huckleberry? Huckaday. Dave Hackaday, the new manager. If he can turn us around. Anyway, we digress. Gives a round of applause for Dave. I was in Bromsgrove the other day. Up the Harriers. Indeed. 1257 is the time. Laurie's in Forest Hill. Laurie, question or answer? It's hopefully an answer. Excellent. Come on. For the fur coats and the furs in Rhodes. Oh, yes. Just for information. It's part of the Dodecanese, which includes Crete and Cos and the others. Don't ask me what they are. I think it's more. Not just Russians, I think it's the whole of, like most of Europe tends to wear fur coats and Rhodes is on the. The cruise ship trail, they all call him there. And I think the proliferation of them are along the Lindos road, then there's only two roads really going down either side of the island. Yes. And the Lindos one is a huge tourist place and they all seem to be. Proliferate along there. And I think it's purely to grab all those cruises. It's why there's so many jewellery shops on Santorini, for example, another greek island where the cruise ships stop off. And it's got. It's got entire street of jewellery shops. Exactly. They're not stupid, are they, the Greeks. I like this a lot. I like. So it's to target tourists specifically. I mean, all tourists, but specifically the cruise ship explains why the larger islands have a proliferation of them, but the smaller islands probably don't because the cruise ships don't stop that. I've just got some. What are your qualifications, Laurie? Well, only that I visit there a lot. My son lives there, has been there for the last 15 years, so. But I don't know anything other than that. But it's just purely my. I think that's a brilliant answer. I'd stay there because I think you're halfway towards a round of applause. I just know. I know that Rolf, who's in rugby, spent some time in Crete, because you used to email me, didn't you, Rolf? Yeah, I certainly did. You're not in Crete anymore? No, no, no. Back to sunny blighty. So you swapped Crete for rugby? Yes. Okay, tell me about the first shops. As you said, I lived in Crete for a number of five years. Yes. And I know four or five Greeks who have these kind of shops. They purely target the Russians whilst they're on holiday because the fur coats are cheaper in. On the greek islands, as opposed in Russia. And they really like fur coats. Yep. They just get a better deal for them. People who work in these stores will be. There'll be very attractive young russian girls selling them. So Juliet's husband was right. It's all about the Russians. Yep. And Laurie's right as well. The cruise sort of itinerary will have played a part in the identification of the islands that sell the furniture. Absolutely. Laurie. Yes, sir. Meet Rolf. Hello, Laurie. Hello, mate. Round of applause between the two gentlemen. I think I prefer the Anglo Saxon, actually. Yeah, that's it. That's a brilliant mystery out this week. Thank you ever so much. We'll do another. I'm off next week's half term, but we'll do another one the week after that. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We will do it all again, albeit without mystery hour tomorrow morning. From ten. I'll also be interviewing dawn French on tomorrow's program. Well, that's not true. I'm about to do it now, but I'll play it to you on tomorrow's program. Meanwhile, the next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty.