Man calls about walking dog

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Hello. Three minutes after twelve is the time, and this is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you've got a question that you think admits an answer but you can't, for the life of you imagine what that answer may be. A frustrating question, perhaps, or just a niggling one, then this is your chance to get an answer to it. If you. Well, actually, no, it's not for no alls. I think the only know all really on mystery hour, sadly, is me. Because generally it's what I love about it is when someone rings in and says, I can't believe it. I've been waiting years for this opportunity to come, so your specific field of expertise pops up. But equally, and I say this every week, because it happens every week, it could just be something that you saw on the telly last night. Someone asked a question and you know the answer to it. The reason why you know the answer to it is often the most interesting bit of the whole mystery hour exchange. But the point is this, by 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now. You could also perhaps be the proud owner of a brand new mystery hour board game. Because my favourite contribution of the week, and I'm afraid the management's decision is final, my favourite contribution of the week will indeed achieve that happy resolution. That happy, happy resolution. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC Dot Co dot UK and you can find out more about the mystery hour board game at Mystery Hour all over the place. I think we'll just wade straight in, shall we? 1205 is the time. Good show today. Enjoyed it a lot. That second conversation in particular was. Well, no, they were both really strong conversations, but we might return to the topics in the second one. Just looking at my inbox, there's a lot there that we still haven't touched on. My daughter laughs at me, says Patricia, because I put commas in my text messages. I believe that the kids call that dotting Patricia, at least if you use a full stop. And again, you know, they might laugh at the way we text an email, just as we marvel at the fact that they do it very differently from ours. But if you're talking about getting into the workplace, then it's going to be the older generation that for the time being, prevails. If you want to get involved in mischief, you know what to do. The number is the same. Don't do, actually. There's no point laying down the law, is there? No one ever pays any attention to me. Sally's in Thames Ditton. Sally, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So, my mum is 94 and she lives in a care home now and has dementia. Yes. But she's still able to have a conversation and everything like that. And I take her out as much as I can and every time I take her out and then bring her back to the home, she says this phrase to me, which is, home again. Home again. Washington. It's either Washington or Whittington, thou lonely citizen. So it's obviously something that she's learned by rote. Yes. At school or college. And she. You know, I just feel if I could find out what it is, then I can read it, I think. I know. I thought you might because you're so good at literature. I've asked all my friends and no one knows. I thought you might. Well, I think it's Dick Whittington. Well, you worked that out. But it's the bells. It's the song that the. So, after he'd gone to London to make his fortune, he was going back to Worcestershire, having failed, and the bells called to him to come back, so the sound of the bells. Home again. Home again, Whittington. I could be wrong. I'll leave it on the board. I'm not taking a round of applause because it's far too important for any ego massaging on my front, but how far down that road had you already gone? Yeah. So I googled it, right? I did google it a few weeks ago and Dick Whittington did come up, but I can't find out what is the. It'll be. It'll be a children's storybook that's not probably online. Do you see what I mean? I can remember reading one which probably would have been lady bird, but if your mom's 94, that's. That's. She's 40 years ahead of me. 40 odd years ahead of me. So goodness knows what picture books they had then. But it may have sung it in class. But I do remember that element of the story of the bells, the sound of the bells encouraging him to turn again and go back to London and give it another go. And then, of course, he ended. He ended up as mayor, didn't he? Lord Mayor, yeah. Oh, that makes sense. It's a lead, Sally. But we'll see if anyone can remember. So we're looking more specifically for the. For the home again. Home again. I thought it was turn again, turn. She might have misremembered, but. Home again, home again, thou lonely citizen. Those. If anyone can slot those words into the story, they go straight to the top of the class, I think. Yeah. Oh, brilliant. Lovely. Thank you so much. Oh, thank you, Sally. That's a lovely question. I really hope we can help with it. 1208 is the time. Dom is in Epsom. Dom, question or answer? Hi, James. Just a question. Oh, phone lines. Terrible. But we'll see how we get on. Make it snappy. Okay. Sorry, mate. At what point does a war become a world war? Okay, yeah, I like that, actually. I just want to know what metric that is to where it becomes. You might be disappointed. You might be disappointed. There may not be a technical threshold for a war, a war becoming a world war. I don't know. But I shall put the question on the board. I mean, I think there have been more than two, but possibly not if it's the number of countries on each side, the alliances drawn on each side, rather than the amount of geography covered. So, you know, the Roman Empire or Genghis Khan might have conquered a lot more territory than the Nazis did, but the Nazis were in cahoots with the Japanese and the Italians and the allies were a guy. I don't know. I don't know. You're on the. I like that question. When does a war become a world war? And can we find Sally's mum's childhood ditty? Almost certainly about ditty Whittington, with something like, home again, home again, thou lonely citizen. In the. In the. In the. In the lyric, in the words, Abu is in Tunbridge Wells. Abu. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. So what, I was watching a program last night. Yes. And so in the Serengeti, for example, so you get these carcasses rotting away, the tiger or lion, whatever, they eat the meat, but they don't fall ill, whereas a human, if they ate that. Yes, they would be ill. So how does that work? Well, I mean, the obvious answer is that they're not humans. So they've got. They've got different. I mean, how can a cow eat grass? They've just got a completely different digestive system, but they don't eat cooked food. I mean, they don't cook food either. So the immune system is already stronger to process the bacteria in raw meat, isn't it? Yeah, well, that's. That's. That's. I assumed. And. But I was just. Just lurking in the back of my head, just trying to understand. No, I get it. No, I'll put it on the board. But I suspect it's the same answer as raw meat. How can animals eat raw meat? But no, I like it because they can eat. I don't think they eat the really rancid old toot, do they? They just, you know, they're looking for a nice, relatively fresh hyena liver. But it's. But we wouldn't tuck into it because we'd want to cook it first. Yeah, well, I mean, so this tiger was eating this elephant carcass and it must. He was just rotting away, but they still sort of, you know, were chunking away at the meat. Yeah, but how old was it? It probably wasn't that old. Listen, you can't leave an elephant carcass knocking around in the Serengeti for very long without it getting eaten. It's not like, you know, finding something in the back of the fridge. Abby, the word would have spread on the tiger tom toms that there was an elephant for the scoffing. They don't eat if it really hums. I bet they don't eat it when the maggots move in. I bet that. I bet they're not actually eating it unless they're really, really hungry. But we will find out. Please. Thank you. You're very welcome. You're right. Not thinking of changing your diet or anything like that? No, no, no. My heart is pounding because the first time I've called you. There's no need for that sort of nervousness. How did it go for you? How did it go for you? How was it for you? I'm still tired. We've got to get you an answer now. Now that we know how much you've got at stake. 1211 is the time. How can animals eat rotting. When does a war become a world war? And what was Sally's mum's childhood ditty about Dick Whittington? The home again, home again or what? What were the actual lyrics? Craig's in Bristol. Sorry, I lost my thread there. Craig, question or answer? I have a question, James, if that's okay. It may sound a bit comical, but I've often wondered, when someone has sadly passed away, why are they then referred to as being late? It's not. It's not only people who've sadly passed away, you still call them late, even if you're delighted that they're dead. Craig. I suppose so, yeah. My question really is, what exactly are you late for when obviously, you're no longer here. It's something that has always sort of been in the back of my head, really. My definition of being late. Well, the best way to think of it, I think we've done this before, so I'm taking my round of applause. And the phone line's gone a bit south, unfortunately. Think of it as lately. So it would be late of this parish lately. Of this parish, as in, they were here not long ago, but they're not here now. That makes sense. It does, doesn't it? Yeah, it does, yeah. Do you know what else makes sense? I'll tell you what else makes sense. The number of texts I'm getting now, as I knew I would, telling me that there aren't any tigers in the Serengeti. It was a figure of flipping speech. It wasn't an actual geographical, Safari based observation. Thank you, Craig. Nice question. Round of applause for me in your own time, Keith. Thank you. So we've got the rotting meat, we've got the world wars, and we've got the dick Whittington. Abigail's in Clevedon. Abigail, question or answer? Here's a question, please. Yes, carry on. I've always wondered, how can you tell the accuracy of a mirror when you buy a mirror? For instance, my daughter's got a mirror in her bedroom, which we call the thin mirror, because everyone looks sort of supermodel ish, really. And the one that I've got in my bedroom, she always says, mom, that's a fat mirror. Are you serious? Yeah. And I went into a changing room in a high street store and tried something on and the mirrors were really unflattering and I thought, I'm not buying it. So I just wondered, is. I mean, how do you know when you go and buy a mirror, whether it's going to give you an accurate reflection of what you look like? I'm surprised this is the question that you've come up with, because I don't think. Well, because it's not the question I would have come up with. With the same experiences that you just described, I would have asked, why do some mirrors make you look thin and other mirrors make you look fat? Okay, yeah, maybe that's what I mean. But we don't talk about thin and fax. It's not pc, is it? Well, you can use words like that, I think, without any problems. I don't know what other words you'd use in this context. I'm just trying to think. Because you'd think, wouldn't you, if that it was possible to actually create mirrors that were more flattering. You'd fill fitting rooms with them. Exactly. In order to. The ones in TK Maxx are terrible, Abigail. I think that's where it was. Was it really? Because I noticed that the other day I tried something on in TK Max and I looked. Goodness me, I looked a right old state. I'm not mister sartorial at the best of times, but, you know, I was. I didn't buy that at all. Okay, I'll find out. So, I mean, it could be a coincidence. Could be the light in the rooms. Could it? Have you swapped the fat mirror for the thin mirror and seen if it still goes out? So swap the one in your room for the one in your daughter's room and see if there's anything. No, you're not doing any experiments or anything. You're not doing the right research you should be doing before ringing in. No, I'm just looking for a thin mirror for myself. I want thin mirrors. Yeah. There will be answers here and we will find out what they are. Why do some mirrors make us look thin while other mirrors make us look a bit fat? Zero. 345-606-0973 or, to be fair to Abigail, we'll take her proper question, which is, how do you know the accuracy of what you see in the mirror? I'm not sure anyone's going to be able to answer that. It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve is the time and questions in need of answers include the following. What makes a war a world war? Why can animals eat rotten or rotting meat? Why do some mirrors flatter us while other mirrors do the opposite? And the dick Whittington rhyme that contains phrases like home again, home again and thou worthy citizen. Can we get to the bottom of what it is? Quite a few of you are going jiggity jig on me. To market, to market to buy a fat pig. How does it go? Jiggity jiggity, home again, home again, jiggity jig, to market, to market to buy a fat hog? Home again, home again, jiggity jog. I tell you, I always think, when I start catching myself coming out with that kind of nonsense, I always think of what it's going to sound like if you've just turned the radio on, especially if you've not listened to LBC before. But you've heard it's very good for political coverage and news and getting the details on Brexit and all that kind of thing. Jiggity jiggity, jiggety jog, joggety jiggity no, we're not. We're doing mystery out. If you don't know what it is, there's a board game, 1219 is the time. Andy is in West Drayton. Andy. Question or answer? It's an answer. Well, I hope so. Carry on. It's the dogs and how they manage to eat all sorts of rotting flesh. It's the strength of the acid in the stomach is a lot stronger than humans. Yes. So it'll dissolve bone because it eats raw. Because it eats raw meat. Normally not. Yeah, raw and rotting. I mean, our dogs, they'll run off with a bit of rabbit and they'll chew away on it, swallow it, and not a thing happens to them. Have you got. Have you got a labrador? I've got a labradoodle. Yeah. They seem to have remarkable constitutions, even if it's only half. Yeah, we've got whippy. Well, Whippet, Bedlington. Yes. And she eat the most disgusting stuff. Yeah. Don't tell. People are having their brunch at the moment. Let's not go there. So what are your qualifications? Just your dog ownership skills. Well, I used to. I used to sell in, a few years ago some raw dog food, and I was talking to the bobs, the manufacturers, and I was asking them how come they can eat all this stuff. They explained the acid. If it will dissolve a bone, it'll dissolve those things. Although I just did, did have a bit of gastroenteritis, so she thinks something even she couldn't deal with. Right. So. But, yeah, there it is. So I've been a bit of immune system and a much stronger constitution, of course. Yeah. Great work, Andy. Nice round of applause for Andy. Oh, James. Yes, mate? I've just heard a cuckoo at Harmansworth Mall, if you're interested. You've just seen one. Well, heard it. I've seen. At least. There was at least one cuckoo, in a way. I thought I heard a second one, but down near the British Airways at Harmansworth, it's a bit far from me. Well, a four. Yeah. No, you're not wrong. You're not wrong. I've got the. I got a dunnock the other day. I know that's not a very big deal, but they're so tiny and it's so quiet to get the microphone close enough to record it. I got a little dunnock in Brentford. Yeah. And there's a kingfisher. There's a lad who tracks the kingfisher in Brentford. He's done a little exhibition about it, and I can't. I've glimpsed it once, but apparently, yeah, there's three rivers through Hartmansworth and occasionally you will see them a couple of. Or a couple of months ago. So, two fighting on a tree. Oh, beautiful. Magical. Absolutely magical. Thank you. No, there it is. Who'd have thought it? Ornithology hour. They'll be doing that before they drag me out of here kicking and screaming, as will surely happen one day. Did he get his round? He got his round of applause, didn't he? Keith is in Plovdiv, in Bulgaria. I bet there aren't many Keiths in Bulgaria. You'd be surprised. I appeared in the local newspaper. I'm a teacher and appeared in a local newspaper in an interview. And the journalist did some research for Keith in plodding, thinking there wasn't anybody else. And a friend of mine, also called Keith. His photographs appeared in the newspaper, in my article. Well, yeah, but that proves that there are two keiths in plot two. I love it. Question or answer, Keith? I've got a question. A curious fact about life in Bulgaria is people nod for saying no and shake their head to say yes in Bulgaria. And there is a legend behind it. And the legend has it under the ottoman period, 500 years in Bulgaria, that says that when you've got a sword under your chin, you don't move your head very much. And I've never been completely convinced that that explains it, because the Ottomans were everywhere and I've never heard of head curiosities in other countries, but it got me thinking when and why was yes associated with nodding. Nodding and sh. Or vice versa, isn't it? I mean, or vice versa? Yeah, I mean, I'm more interested. I can't believe it. That's the second question today that I'm trying to edit and change because I'm more interested now in why they do it differently in Bulgaria. It can't because of the Ottomans, because then they'd be doing it differently in Turkey and loads of other places. Like I say, is a bit of a legend, but, um. So why not? Why not? Yes, maybe there's an explanation. I'm just trying to think what. Roman times nod. It does. Yes. Now, your producer did say, hone it into the UK, because you might get lots of explanations from lots of parts around the world. Yeah, that's true. So. Well, we can't. It's just wherever you nod for yes, the origin will presumably be the same and that. That, mate, might make it roman, but no, you're on. Thank you. Keith. Keith, before you go, give my regards. Give my regards to Keith, won't you? 23 minutes after twelve, Robin is in Henley. Robin, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. My middle name's Keith. I'm not from Bulgaria. Thanks for clearing that up, Robin. So did you have. Were your parents quite. Were they chalk and cheese? Because Robin is quite. I see Robin is quite an artistic name. I see, you know, I think of Robin Hood or, you know, whereas I see Keith is a very solid, very solid old school name. So your parents, your parents decided to come both of the bases with Robin Keith? Indeed they did. So my question, James, is I've noticed this for years and then I forget about it and I thought, just be to Cornwall and drive across from one county to another. And I go through many counties to do different routes each time. It could be Wiltshire into Somerset, it could be Devonins, Cornwall, or any variation on a theme. But then you sort of expand it across the country. You always see that kind of nice sign that says welcome to Dorset, welcome to Wiltshire. And always look across the road because they're sure be exactly the same and opposite side when that road is crossing a border. Yeah. There's always like a 100 meters, sometimes a 200 meters gap between the two. Why? It doesn't make any sense to me, but I guarantee I've noticed it hundreds of times. I have as well. There's one. There's a whole. There's a whole level crossing. I think when you cross at one point from Suffolk into Norfolk, there's a whole level crossing in what we would call the sort of no man's land, isn't it, that you're describing? Maybe it is a no man's land. Maybe you can just plant a flag there, Robin, and start your own kingdom, kingdom of Keith's. Or if you're just trying to sort of. If you've been up to no good and you're trying to escape the police. Yes, like the Dukes of hazard, going over the county lines like a two modern day robin Hood. Nothing to do with me. You wave at the coppers. Ah, you'll never take me alive. Copper. I think the answer is going to be very boring, isn't it? And it's going to be that. The sign, the sign can't be put, it has to be put in the best place for the sign. So, like corners and 200 yards apart, it's a month. Well, I'll find out. Why are the signs saying you're leaving a county not directly opposite this? Also the road might not be the border, might be on an angle that cuts across the road like a hypotenuse of a triangle. And you're presuming that it. Give them those ones, you know, if it's on the side of a mountain, I'll give them that. There you go. Usually straight as a die road. And I don't get it. It's a really odd one to me. Straight as a die road. But the county, I can tell it's obviously bothered you on an existential level, this and that makes me feel all the more responsible for getting you an answer. So why. Why do the signs telling you that you're leaving a county and telling you that arriving in a county, why do they not sit directly opposite each other on a road you're on? That's the one. I like it. Thank you, Robin. 1236 is the time. Gary's in Malden. Gary, question or answer? James, got an answer for you. Let's go about the mirror. It's to do with what's called perspective distortion. And to check that the mirror is accurate, you need to measure the glass with a very flat edge to make sure that there's no deviation from that flatness. Okay. It's like, you know when you go down the old thumb fair and you look at. You go in the house of. The house of horrors and wonky mirrors. Not for a while. Is it really? It is. That's what it's to do with. So, you know, if it. If it buckles in. In the middle, it will look. It will give a thinner perspective. Concave. So that would be concave. Yeah, exactly. The other way around. Convex. Look a little bit bigger than you really are. And presumably it can. If it's cheaper, it's more likely to. Do you see what I mean? It's not. Is it done deliberately, ever? Well, who knows? Maybe some shops have got thin mirrors. Yeah, but you'd think so. But the one that Abigail and I both picked up on was the opposite problem. It was a shop that had. I'm feeling bad now because the pr for the shop is listening to the show, and she's just tweeted about it. I mean, it's my favorite shop, actually. I'm like Prince Harry. I get all my clothes in TK Maxx. It's a wonderful, wonderful store. But I do find that their mirrors make me look a little bit bigger than I am. A little bit bigger than other mirrors. They need to have a look at their mirrors, I think. James, what are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? I'm a photographer, and this is very similar to what we have to look out for in perspective distortion on the edges of camera lenses make pictures go funny. So you're on. And in fact, you've also answered the question that Abigail asked before I tried to edit it for her, which is to be confident. You almost need a spirit level, right? Yes. But more of a. More of a flat edge. It's not necessarily. Spirit level will give you level in terms of how is it horizontally or vertically? What you want is a deviation from the flat. Oh, so you just put a flat ruler on it and see if there's any wibble or wobble. Exactly. And it could. And it's not just from the front, it could be from the back as well. So the back of the mirror's got that curve in it. You might see it flat in the front and the curve will be at the back. Round of applause for Gary. Beautifully done. I like that one. Thanks, Jack. Thank you. And apologies to TK Max. I'm sure that it's probably just a coincidence. Probably just a coincidence. It's coming up to 12:30 I'm just going to read this quickly from Adam in Derby, says, james, you're being very kind today. That's always going to attract my attention. He goes, that road sign question was the most boring in the history of mystery hour. It categorically was not. I don't know. I don't even want to start a conversation about what was the most boring question in the history of mystery hour, because I said something in passing the other day about there being one episode of full disclosure that I wasn't very pleased with. And the speculation has really discombobulated me because it's still coming in yesterday, people. I know which one it was, it was da da da da da. And it wasn't. So now I'm thinking, I've got paranoid now about you listening to all the full disclosures and thinking, well, that wasn't a very good one. That must be the one James didn't like. And then you send it to me and I think, well, I really like that one. I thought that one was really good. So I'm certainly not opening up a debate on what the worst ever or most boring ever mystery. Our question was, and I didn't think that one was boring either. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1233. The origins of home again, home again, thou lonely citizen. Pretty sure it's Dick Whittington, but we need to find out because Sally's mum is singing it. And we can't pin down precisely where it comes from. What makes a war a world war? We've done the meat, we've done that, we've done the mirror. I love the mirror. Answer. When did nodding your head become a sign of saying yes or a sign of the affirmative? And why do the signs telling you that you're leaving a county and the signs telling you that you're entering a county not appear directly opposite each other on a road? I think I might have accidentally stumbled into the answer of that one. I think it's a misunderstanding of what boundaries and roads are. There's absolutely no reason why a road would be perpendicular to a boundary, is there? So, anyway, we shall see. Cyril's in Eltham. Cyril, question or answer? Answer, James. It's to do with the dick Whittington one. Oh, yeah. It's not exactly home again, home again. But I know there was a folk song years ago called turn again. Whittington. Yes. And in there it says, turn again. The wisest men or something. Dick Whittington, Lord mayor of London. But it was from a folk song. Turn again, turn again, thou honest citizen. Thou worthy, worthy citizen. Yeah, it was a song, but I think I'll get. I'll totally wrong this, because I didn't do that much when I was doing it. And she did originally, I think it was around about the thirties. It was written a folk song that would fit, wouldn't it, with. With Sally's mum being 94? I mean, I don't know. I don't want to sound brutal, Cyril. No, but I don't know that you've added much to what I already said. No, I'm just confirming it, James. Well, I need you to sing it. I don't have the song. I'm not research. I never got the tune. When were you researching it? Why were you researching it? For my book. One of my books I published years ago. What was it called? A history of London through beer goggles. Through bit. So what, you just wrote a history book while you were drunk or you were drawing on pubs? You were drawing on pubs as part of. Because I find it fascinating, the relationship between history and pubs. Right. What it is, is a series of pub calls going around London. Yeah. As you go, I give you the route and have to go from the pub to the pub. I'll tell you what happened in the street back in the day. It's a brilliant idea. Is it still in print? Yeah, it's still in print, yes. The third one's coming out this year. Hopefully. I shall look out for that. That's so far up my straw, so that you could almost have been writing it with me in mind. I'm so boring now. But I started boring my own children. They're doing history a level, James. I'll tell you. I'll tell you what, if you send me an email address or mail. No, no, I'll pay for it. I'll pay. You're very kind, but I will pay for it with my hard earned cash. Cyril up. But I don't know if you get a round of applause. I could swap it for a mystery out ball game, I suppose. I don't know if you're gonna get wide your neck in, pal. I don't know if I can give you a round of applause unless we actually nail it down properly. We need to nail the song down properly so that Sally essentially can sing it to her mum, don't we? Really? Yeah. Yeah. I'll give you a round of applause because you've made me aware of the history of London through beer goggles. And that has improved my life. Thanks very much. You take care. Probably turn again rather than home again so that. And then home again is the jiggity jig. I think we shall see someone. I don't know. What have we got? Just looking for it. The song, how far back it goes, or. No, I know the story. I don't need that. But. And the bells were saying, turn again, turn again. Whittington, thrice mayor of London town and thou worthy citizen. It's all there, but not quite for Sally. Elizabeth is in Motherwell. Elizabeth, question or answer? Hi, James. There's a question. Carry on. It's maybe specific to Scotland, but it's about alcohol. We should have more scottish questions on mister. The little grocery stores that sell alcohol, we call them off sales. And that's what's written on the window. Off sales. And it got me thinking. What does that mean? Where did that come from? Off sales. Oh, I know this. Do you? Yeah. Oh, right. Okay. Tell me then. It's for drinking off the premises. Ah. Really? Is it as simple as that? Yeah, it is. So there's a. There's a pub in Labbrook Grove that's still got the. Like the carving in the. In the. In the. It's the one on the corner of Holland park and. And Ladbroke Grove. I forget what it's called. It's a lovely pub. Big old fashioned gym palace, you know, a lovely old pub. And it's still got the off it may even say off sales rather than off license, but it would be a separate part of the pub where you could buy a take home, you see. You sound disappointed. You sound disappointed. Well, your producer said you would know it and you're a man of knowledge. Worried about that? What do you mean the producer said I would know? It's booze related or something like that, or. No, it's because it's history, you see. Social history, Elizabeth, that's my thing. Cyril would have known it with his book History of London through beer goggles. So that why it's off sales in Scotland and off licences in England, I do not know, but it is the same. It's an off sales license, isn't it? Round of applause for me. No, thank you. Thank you, thank you. Lee's in the forest of Dean Lee. Question or answer? Hi, it's a question. Please carry on. If I was to walk a mile down a steep hill. Down and then. Yeah, down and then walk a mile back up the same hill. Yeah. How much energy would I use, comparatively, to walk in 2 miles on the flat? More or the same? Well, it depends. My BMI is going up, my metabolism slowing down, I need to do more than 10,000 a day. And when I walk my dogs every morning, I go down a very steep hill in the forest and then I walk back up the tramway and I just want to know if I'm using more energy doing that than if I was walking the same distance on the flat. Oh, I see. Because you think that the energy going down the hill is lower than on the flat and up the hill is higher and therefore, do they think there's a possibility in physics? I don't. If I was spherical, for example, and frictionless. Yes. Would I use more or less energy? If you want to be spherical, I can recommend the mirrors at TK. Max Lee. If I want to be spherical, I'll stop all the exercise completely, but. Well, I don't. It's the mitre. Physics. What's the answer? That's my real question. Yeah. If you roll a ball down a 45 degree meter, down a 45 degree angle for a meter. No, I know that. But you're not. I know that, but you're not a ball, are you? And you need a different. You're just making sure you don't fall over or get. Means you're using muscles. So we really. We just need more energy than on the flat. Yeah. You might be doing. I'm 99% certain that going up and down a hill is going to use more energy than staying on the flat. But we want a definitive answer. I'd like an answer to the physics question. Really? That's the real question? All three bits of it, then, yeah. If you were to roll a ball down the meter and then back up the same meter, does it use the same energy? No, that's not your question. You can't change it now. Yeah, but I am pretty spherical. Well, you're clearly not spherical enough, and I can't do. No, of course it doesn't use the same energy. It's got. It's gravity, mate. Fighting gravity. No, you know. No, you're spoiling it now. I only just got my head around the original question. You know, you're bringing balls into it. All right, so we're going up, up and down a hill. A two mile journey. 1 mile up, 1 mile down. What is the energy exertion compared to 2 miles on the flat? I don't know if anyone will know, but this is the first time ever that my notes on what the question is, I've just drawn a picture rather than written anything down. I shall write your name down, Lee. But I've just drawn a picture of a hill with some arrows. We'll see in about 15 minutes time whether it's any use at all to me and trying to remember what the question was. Phil's in Swindon. Phil, question or answer? Good afternoon, sir. It's a question. Carry on. Right. It's about weather and pollen reports. So we've got a pollen bomb happening tomorrow, apparently. Is that right? Apparently so. And how we can predict weather, because we got weather satellites, but pollen, how do we do that? How on earth do they know? You're suffering at the moment, aren't you? Definitely. You're well bummed out. I don't know what you sound like normally, but you've got a touch of the Michael Caine's going on down in Swindon there. Yes, I have, actually. Yes. I suffer with it. My eyes can just about see. Oh, my mum's a slave to it. Phil. Oh, really? Yeah. So, yeah. It's not nice. No, it's horrible. But how did they know? Yeah, how do they know what they do? Obviously, there's no one out there shaking a load of flower seeds or pollen or anything. I wouldn't have thought so. Is it when you get the pollen count, is it. Does it change around the country? Is it. Well, it just says high low for the whole country, though. Would you and I be looking at the same pollen count? Swindon, London. Well, no. Yeah, I think it varies according to the region. But I just wondered, how do they know, how can they predict? Because there's even whether it's regional or national. That's the same question, isn't it? How do they count pollen? Yeah, well, yeah, exactly. You can measure rain. You can measure rain, can't you? But how do you do it with pollen? Just look at people's faces, their eyes, or how much they're streaming. There's one tree. I've never worked out what it is. There's one tree. There used to be one on. Well, there probably still is. I don't walk up it as much as I used to, but there was one point on Chiswick High Road, for about two days of the year, I'd walk past and my face would explode. And then ten minutes later, not even ten minutes, ten shops later, I was fine again. It was the strangest thing. Must have been a very, very specific pollen at a very, very specific moment. And it would be. It'd be like being mugged. And it's the allergy. Yeah, it is. It's a mad one. I shall try to find out for you, Phil. Thank you, sir. Thank you so much indeed. And I hope you feel better soon. And I guess you'll be staying in tomorrow, will you? Or what do you do? Yeah, yeah. I'll probably go caving or something like that. This might work. That might work also. There we go. How do they count Pollen? Zero 345-606-0973 I love the fact that I have a significant number of listeners capable of naming a pub that I've alluded to on the program within seconds of me naming it. Thank you to Caroline and everybody else who's pointed out. I'm talking about the Mitre tavern on the corner of Holland park and Ladbroke Grove, which still has. You may not even have noticed it. It still has the. Because it's carved into the stonework above the back entrance, as it would once have been. The off sales or the off license sign, which came up nicely. Someone sent me a YouTube of what we think is the song that Sally was looking for, which means that someone would definitely be able to. Definitely be able to sing it. But I shall definitely pass that on to Sally if we don't get the answer on air. It is 1243. So I just need to close YouTube now, don't I, to see who's up next on the program. It's Stuart in Thornbury. Stuart, question or answer? It's a question. James, nice to speak to you. Likewise. What have you got? I've got steps and stairs. Why are steps outside and stairs are inside? I don't think that's true. Well, you don't. You don't say. I'm just going up the steps to bed. No, is what I mean. Oh, okay. Whereas you would say the steps at something like the monument that's inside. Yeah. I thought, first of all, maybe it's because, you know, some sometimes are made of stone and then obviously stairs are normally made of wood. Maybe that was something along the lines. That could be it. But. And also the banisters and handrails. So the banisters always inside, the handrails always outside. And I just thought that was weird. Why? Why? Most people think that steps are outside and stairs are inside. So Trafalgar Square is a good example. I'm just trying to think somewhere. I know you're in Thornbury, but I'm just trying to think somewhere where I've got it in my mind at the moment. So, Trafalgar Square, lots of steps. Yeah. You'd never think of calling them stairs, would you? No, a staircase. A staircase, yeah. Could be a staircase. A staircase. Hang on, hang on, it's coming. So a staircase is fitted into a space, a staircase space, and, ergo, a case of stairs that has been made and put in, whereas steps, as you've alluded to, more likely to be stoned. Not necessarily, but they're not fitting into a. It's a different. It's a. It's there. It's not quite there, but it's there, Stuart. It's. You're trying to get the parental applause, aren't you? Staircase is the key clue here. Staircase, you know, could be putting it in between floors. Between floors? Between floors. Could be. You have a staircase between two floors, whereas steps are not between two floors, are they? No, that's it, mate. That's it. You think that's what it is? What it is. Just to throw you a curveball quickly, what we know a lot of people wear, you know, smartwatches these days. Track your steps. Yes. But if you have an app with that smartwatch, it will also give you the equivalent in how many flights of stairs you've climbed. Really? Really? Yeah. Well, you live and learn, but that doesn't. That's flights. Flights of stairs, you see, they go from one level to another. Very specific job done by a staircase or a flight of stairs, whereas taking steps to climb them. Steps, yeah, you take a step to climb a stair, but the steps that you go up and down at the actual physical entity, that is a step is not going to be linking one floor to another. What, above each other as well. Remember stairs? Stairs go above. They're like stacked on top of each other, whereas steps might go from one level to another. So if you had a big house, right, and you had an atrium that was higher or lower than the rest of the room, they would be steps, not stairs. So it's stairs linking vertically stacked levels. Wow. A massive round of applause for me, please. Someone's gonna. I'll give it 5 seconds before someone rings in to tell me that I've got it wrong, but I shall enjoy the moment while it lasts. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1250 is the time. It's not easy being a radio producer. Do you know what just happened there? Eleanor had two people ready to come on the program and sing the dick Whittington song that we've been searching for since the top of the show. Top of the hour. Top of mystery hour. And then in the space of one commercial break, they both cried off. One got very busy at work and one was on a motorway and wouldn't be able to pull over. So we've got, we were actually going to do it in the round because it seems that the song that we're talking about, which is a sort of 17th, 18th century broadside ballad, it is performed in the round. So you know what that means, like, London's burning. You start and then you get to. And then I start. And we're doing it at the same time at different points in the, in the song, but both of them have cried off. So we've only got eight minutes left. So we need someone, ideally two people who can actually sing. Turn again, Whittington. I've got, I found a link that we will send to Sally. So we, hopefully this is it. But it's not home again. It's turn again. But it is their lonely worthy citizen. Anyway. When does a war become a world war? When did nodding. Why does nodding denote saying yes? Why do the signs between counties not correspond? That is the sign saying you're leaving one county and the sign saying you're a arriving in another one are not directly opposite each other on the road. We've done off sales. Does it take, what more energy to walk a mile up a hill and a mile down a hill or less energy than it does to walk 2 miles on the flat? How do they count pollen? And I've done the steps and stairs and I will not be admitting any stewards inquiries on that. I don't think Lewis is in Putney. Lewis, question or answer Stewart's inquiry about the serengeti. Oh, yeah, that's fine, yeah, nothing doing me. Well, go on, what did he get wrong? Dogs don't have stronger stomach acid than humans. They actually produce more. So there are very few animals. Well, because. Yeah, because animals like dogs and other, let's say a primate eats more raw meat. They have the genes to deal with it and to process that diet. Humans, because for hundreds of thousands of years have been eating cooked food, have lost those genes and we don't have them anymore. So we don't produce as much stomach acid, we don't have the things to break down the proteins, to break down grass, and because we use that energy for our brains effectively, because we don't need that energy, because we put it into the food through fire, and so therefore we. Our digestion is quicker and easier. But the actual answer is to do animals get sick when eating raw food, you know, rotting meat out there? They do, but they can handle more of it than we can. There it is. Qualifications? Degree in medical genetics, of course, and a career in pharmaceuticals. Round of applause for Lewis. Thank you. Thank you. So that sounded a bit. I mean, he actually works for a big pharmaceutical company. I wasn't casting aspersions upon the legality of his career. He's phoned in a lot. He's one of my favorite callers. Greg's in Liverpool. Greg, question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. I can sing that. Dick Whittington was ditty. Can we do it? Hang on, wait there. Peter's in Wallington. Have we checked it's the same ditty? Peter. Hello, James. Hi. Can you just. Just don't sing it yet. Just give me the first couple of lines of what you think it is. Turn again, Whittington. Is that the same as you, Greg? Turn again, Whittington. Hang on, stop, stop, stop. We're going to do it in the round. So Greg's going to start Peter, and then you'll come in on. All right? So, Greg, on three, two, three, turn again. Whittington Lower. The London mayor of London. We haven't practiced, I think. Yeah, I don't think. I don't think. Yeah. Thou worthy citizen, Lord Mayor. That's it. That's it. That's racism. Yeah, great work, lads. And that is. That is. I think that Sally's mum's obviously with the home again. She's got it mixed up with something else. But that is the song. That is the song that she's looking for. How do you know? Qualifications, Greg? First I learned it at school. Peter, how do you know? What are your qualifications? My sister learned it at school when she was young and she used to have the family sing it around the dinner table. We'd go around, yeah, lovely parcel image. A round of applause for both gentlemen, please. Next time, lads, we'll do a rehearsal. 12 54. 54 is the time we've done that. And we'll get a copy of it as well. We found it. I hope it's what Sally's looking for, because I know that home again's not turn again, but it must be that song. It simply must be. We don't know when a war becomes a world war. We don't know why. Nodding. Lots of people are sending me breastfeeding references on the nodding and the shaking of the head. But if it was something physiological like that, then you wouldn't have people in Bulgaria nodding for no and shaking their head for yes. I don't think you would. And the devon, Cornwall and the walking up and down hill in the pollen count. Still room for all of these answers. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. We'll go to Mel, who's in Wharton in Lancashire. Male question or answer? Hello. Very quickly. It's an answer. It's about the walking. To put a very, very long story short, the physics says one plus one miles equals 2 miles. The biology says you're probably going to expend more energy. The physics is. I can't remember which law of thermodynamics it is, but energy is always conserved. So all you've done is transfer kinetic energy to gravitational potential, potential energy and then brought it back down again when you've walked down a hill. However, and this is where it gets interesting, is our bodies store energy in a very interesting way. We store it in a chemical, ATP, and our body consumes that energy no matter what. So, for instance, if you lift a 1 kg barbell up and hold it there, let's say, 1 meter, for the sake of making the maths easy, the physics says you have expended one joule and that's all you're ever going to expect. Got it? But your body is going, no, I'm having to support this now. I need to clench my muscles. ATP, ATP, ATP. Which is why feels like, and you probably are, I mean, in terms of calories, if you like, you will be converting more of that energy into that energy than you would be if you were on the flat. Exactly. In terms of glucose, calories, ATP. Great answer. Qualifications? I'm an aerospace engineer and I do a lot of study into a how the physics planes work and b how the biology of pilots holding back control. Perfect qualification. That's a beautiful round of applause for Mel. That's really lovely. Thank you. Quite an odd question from Lee, but a beautiful answer from Mel. I love it when that happens. Sal's in Paddington. Sal, question or answer? Answer about nodding heads. It's the most stark, obvious version of semiotic temporal drift that you've got. Because it started from pre linguistic society when to show the top of your head became acquiescence. Animals still do. So. Oh my gosh, my cat does it. Yes. So it. What are the Bulgarians playing out then? That's. That is the difference between a, that's a societal, implemented change which is regional and so locked in that way, whereas the rest of the rest of the world has done it. Because it's basically a transition from pre spoken, pre linguistic animalistic behavior that became. That transgressed from acquiescence, submission to meaning. Yes, submission. Well, you've done it. Qualifications? Masters, researcher in psychosocial studies. Serving you quite well in Mistria it is. And it's nice to talk to you again. No, likewise. And another round of applause for you. So I like this. I like these academic meetings. Have you put any of these discoveries to use in the real world? Yes, I often ring up mystery with my psychosocial. Do I need to pick a favourite? Now I'm going to give it to Cyril because a, I can't wait to read his book, and b, turns out he's called O'Brien. So a couple of people ringing in to ask the name of the book. It was called London. The history of London through beer goggles. A history of London through beer goggles by Cyril O'Brien. No relation that I'm aware of, but I'm going to give Cyril the mystery apple game this week and that is it. My apologies to. Well, Darren, 10 seconds. How do you count pollen? You take it for a Burkhardt trap, it goes onto a sticky piece of paper and you give it to a polynologist under a polarized microscope and they will look at it and look for the counts of pollen. And the more pollen there is, the higher the number. And you have loads of these around the country. But they're telling me what it's going to be tomorrow though, aren't they? I don't know that. I just. You asked. Have a round of applause. There you go. Well played. That's it for me for another day. Don't forget, you can download this program and all LBC programs are on the global player. You can rewind live radio, enjoy the whole show podcast. All our shows are there, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Download global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com dot. Tom Sawbrick back with you at four. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.