Where are all the great white sharks?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. It's five minutes after twelve, a tiny little bit later than usual, but I mean, we call it mystery hour. Anyway. It's never actually an hour. There's a question for you. No, don't, please. No, don't. Seriously. If you do, you're banned forever from the program. If you have a mystery that needs solving, a riddle that needs unraveling, an enigma that needs fixing, then this is your chance, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. I'll solve one quick mystery for you. The bank of England has just announced that it's holding rates at 5.25%. So you can tick that one off your list and we'll start making another one. You ring in, or someone rings in, asks a question, a who, why, a what, a when, a whither, a whence, even perhaps the occasional wherefore. And then someone else rings in with the answer. The management's decision is final and the management is me. But rather excitingly these days, latterly, in recent years, there has been a prize. There still is a prize, for my favourite contribution of the day. And that prize is a brand spanking new mystery hour board game. Beautiful bit of kit. Available, of course, at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Or by submitting my favourite contribution of the day. You don't even have to get the question right, or the answer right or the question doesn't even have to be good. Just is entirely in the eye of the beholder and the beholder is me. And the full terms and conditions regarding that conversation can be found at LBC dot co dot UK. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Ollie's in Exeter. Ollie. Question or answer? Oh my goodness. Hello. Hello. You can't be surprised. Just to clarify, we haven't phoned you. I know, but I've tried before and never got on. Anyway. Anyway, I don't want to waste time. You know when you look on your phone and. And it gives you the temperature for the day? Yeah. And then next to it it says, feels like something else. Yes. How do. How do they figure that out? Does somebody go out and stand in the cold? And so you've got the temperature and then you've got the. Feels like because of wind chill factor and what else? And shade and other issues. I don't know what those issues are. I probably shouldn't have said anything. So you're going to have to help me out a bit, because I'm not a serial consulter of the weather app on my phone. Does the feet. The. Feels like temperature is different from the official temperature. Is it often? Yes. More often than not. Especially like, today was six degrees. It feels like three when I got up this morning. Is that right? That's quite a significant difference. That's a 100% disparity there. Right there, yeah. So why, how and indeed who determines? I live in Exeter, where the Met office is. I should know. Really? Well, I don't know that. You know, I live in London, where parliament is. But goodness me, it's not as if I could answer any questions at all about how on earth we ended up with. Well, I tell a lie, I've written a book about how on earth we ended up with such an awful government. But now's not the time for me to plug my own products. Ollie, good luck winning the mystery, our board game, though. Have we got an answer to that question? How do the temperature apps tell us that the temperature is six degrees, but it will feel like three degrees? Rene is in Enfield. Rene, question or answer? Hello? Hi, can you hear me? No. Oh. Oh, this is awkward. Hi. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. No. Can you hear me better now? Yes. That's incredible. What did you do? I don't know what I did. Okay, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. So, recently I went on holiday to Italy. And the one on a plane. And on the back of the plane you've got the plane code and you've got a flag. Yes, but sometimes the flag is printed back to front. And my question is, why is that the case? Because when I went off to Italy, it was an air mortar flight and the maltese flag was printed back to front with the cross the other side and not how the maltese flag should look like. So my question is, why are the flags printed back on a plane sometimes? Well, if it was an italian flag and you were flying towards Italy, it would be the correct way around. But if you were flying it was an italian plane and you were flying away from Italy, it would be reversed. No, no, I just made that up. I just made that up. I'm nearly there, but it's not that at all. I'll find out for you. Thank you very much. Pardon? Thank you so much. Can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. I'll try to get it on the board for you. Reno, stay safe. Ten minutes after twelve is the time Libby is in Nantwich. Libby, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I would like to know why there are more left handed people. Yes, that's a good question. The reason I ask is that I've been working as an invigilator of adults in high school, and obviously sometimes it gets really, really boring. So I kind of amused myself by counting how many left handers there are. And I've noticed, based on obviously, you know, in depth scientific research, that in the core exams, it generally tends to be about one in ten, which I believe is, you know, 10% number of left handed people. But in things like further maths, it drops dramatically, really. And again, it's some of the humanity subjects and the left handers goes up above that. Sometimes you get up to, like, four in ten. Blimey. And I just really like to know why it isn't, you know, why the population didn't have something like a 50 50 split. So you've just thrown in the bits about further maths in the humanities as interesting side effect orders, because I can't look into all of this at the same time, but I can look into why there isn't a more even spread of left handed. I mean, the obvious answer, as I'm sure you know, is evolution, isn't it? And there being some sort of evolutionary disadvantage to being left handed or advantage to being right handed, or both. But I can't think initially what that might be. Immediately, I can't think what that might be. Is it genetic? Do we know that it's genetic? Did left handed people more likely to have left handed children? I don't know, because my parents are both right handed. I'm lefty, my parents are both right handed. None of my children are left handed. Well, that answers that question. Well, it does in your case. All right, so why is there not. We may have done something similar before, but you know the rules, Libby. If I can't remember the answer, then the question has never been asked. Why are there not more? Why is it such a small minority? I've got 10% in my head, but goodness knows there's a lot of stuff in my head that is absolute, absolute beeswax. So I don't know why we'd think that was necessarily true. 1212 is the time. Ewan's in Birmingham. Ewan, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. It's about recipes, and I want to apologize for putting your recipe the other week in inverted commas on Twitter. I'm sorry, mate, what do you mean? The brussels sprout recipe? I put the recipe word in inverted commas. Oh, you did, didn't you? Yes. I'm so sorry. I was not very happy about it. How can it not be a recipe? You've got ingredients. You've got ingredients that you combine and it involves cooking. So how is that not a recipe? Ewan, I'm wrong and I was flipping. I do apologize. It's all right. It's guys. You and Ed, Davey. Everyone's saying sorry on this program today. Did you enjoy it? I did. God, it tasted amazing. It's incredible, right? Even the cheesemakers got in touch with me. Santa gehr sent me some free cheese. Well, they didn't send me that much, actually, but I got through all the stuff that they did. But there's three different types. Did you know this? There's the hard cheese, there's the normal cheese, which I think you used, didn't you? You didn't use the cream cheese. No. I thought you were talking about the crumbly one. No. And then I realized there was the cream one and I thought, yeah, yeah, yeah. So there's the cream one and there's the crumbly one, but there's a whipped one as well, which I hadn't seen. No, nor did I. I think it might be vip sort of level stuff, ewan. You know, like tap on the nose type territory. And that. That is not for your sprouts. That's just for a nice little bit of baguette, scooping it in the bowl and. Ah, man, I actually had it for lunch yesterday. Anyway, I digress. Best bit of marketing that company's ever done, sending me three tubs of free cheese. Question or answer? It's a question about recipes. My mother used to keep a load of old recipe books and she's got some that are incredibly old and she. The measurements were always imperial. Yes. For the more recent ones. But she's got some that say nothing else other than cup of. Yes. And she always explained it to me that it was about proportions. It didn't matter how many cups you had or how big your cup was, just as long as you had three of them related to everything else, then it was fine. Yeah. And they all reference sticker butter, which I know the Americans still reference sticker butter. Now I know what the weight of it is. That's not the question. The question is, if cup related to a cup and an object, what was the stick? Yeah. So. Because if a stick is denoting the weight, then it can't work in the same way that a cup does. Yeah. So I don't. But she never. She could never tell me the question, the answer to the question. So she understood the cut proportions bit. But, yeah, stick was. Was lost in the mist. Well, are we sure that recipes would refer both to cups and sticks? No, that's one ring. Well, if they don't refer to cups and sticks, we haven't got a problem, have we? No. You get cups and sticks in the same recipe, you would. That's what I asked you. Stick or butter and a cup of flour. Okay, well, I think there's a sort of broad consensus on what a cup is, because I know from Nigella, Nigella's recipe is always, you press a button to turn it from english to american and then american back to british. No, it's not the weights I'm worried about, because my mum was exposed that the cut was about proportion. So you could have any. Yeah, but I mean, you put me in a very uncomfortable position because I think your mum might have been wrong. Oh, okay. I think there is consensus on what a cup is, because an american cup is different from a uk cup mate. Certainly on a rice maker, you can't be faffing about with cups. It's a really specific measurement. And, you know, you put two cups and then top up the water to a certain level. If you were using random cups of different sizes, you'd have rice coming out of your ears, would you not have two cups of rice and two cups of water? But not if you. That might work, but you'd not be topping it up to the level in the rice cooker where it says two cups, you see. True. But that's. That's kind of the evolution of the fact that there is now a standard. Yeah, I mean, there's a question there somewhere. I'm just not entirely sure we've pinned down exactly what it is. So just general inquiries about cups and sticks. Why is it a stick? Why is it a stick? Is it a stick? Is it a physical piece of stick? It probably was. It probably would have been a way for them to sell it back in the day, wouldn't it? A stick as a block. A stick. You don't want a block because it'll go off quicker in the days before refrigeration. So I'm all right, thank you, misses. I'll just have a stick. There you go. We'll find out. I like it, Ewan. Happy eating, happy munching. Try and get hold of that whipped one, if you can. Seriously, 1216 is the time. Ewan's in Birmingham. Of course. I'm in Wolverhampton tomorrow night. And I think it's the only gig I've done in the last. Since November 2, when the book came out, or, no, October something. I think there's still some tickets. I think Wolverhampton is poised to let me down and be the only non sold out event of my entire book tour. But that's tomorrow night at Wolfram Halls in Wolverhampton. If you fancy coming along. It should be a good night. 1216 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 19 minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour with me. We want to know what's the difference between the temperature and what the temperature feels like? How do they measure it? And how can they be so different? Often quite markedly different. Rene's question about flags on a plane was even simpler than I thought. My answer was a bit stupid, because I gave the impression that they took the flags off the planes and changed them depending on which direction they were flying in. But actually, if you think about american soldiers and epaulettes and stuff. Anyway, the question's on the board. Why do the flags on planes sometimes face the wrong way? And sometimes they face the right way? Why are there so few left handed people? Or if you prefer, why aren't there more left handed people? And finally, what's a stick of butter all about? Sounds like. Sounds like a tongue twist of that, doesn't it? Or a nursery rhyme. Peter Piper picked it. What's a stick of butter all about? David's incheps, though. David, question or answer? Hi, James. Great show. Thank you, mate. I'm bringing in about mammals. So humans are mammals. We're born. We have a number of unbuildable cords connected to our afterbirth. The cord is cut manually and clamped, yes. What happens to other mammals in the animal kingdom? How do they manage their unbillable cords? How do. They can't clamp them? So what do they do? I think they just. They just chomp through them, mate. So how do they stop them bleeding out, then? Because we clamp ours to stop our. Presumably to stop ourselves bleeding out. So what happens? I think they. I think that they have evolved differently from us and therefore they don't need to worry about bleeding out. Yeah. So gorillas and chimpanzees, very similar to us. I just. I was thinking about it. I thought this is a good one for. Well, it is. I mean, do animals have belly buttons? Is this a sort of obvious follow up question to this? Isn't it? And are they outies or innies? And are they outies or innies. I mean, I know that cats bite through them. I'm not joking, because we had cats, or some friends of ours had. I've seen cats giving birth. I've seen cats bite through an umbilical cord, but I don't know why. The blood supply. It's from the placenta, isn't it? So it's going to have something to do with the placenta, isn't it? I don't know why I'm even muddling around on this one. It's not as if I'm going to stumble across the answer by accident, is it? In the context of this conversation. But I know that cats bite through them, so that's part of your. Because, I mean, your question was literally, what do mammals do to cats? Mammals, yeah, but I was specifically thinking about primates, because we are primate. Well, you should have said that, because, I mean, theoretically, by having witnessed the cat biting through an umbilical cord, I have theoretically answered your question. You have? Yeah, but I'm going to leave it on the board nonetheless. Marvelous. All right, my day. Appreciate it. Cheers, David. Stay safe. 22 after twelve is the time. Mike's in. Tauten. Mike, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Mike. So it's the flag question on aircraft. Try not. Try not to. Try not to make the rest of us feel too stupid, all right? No, it's reasonably straightforward, you say. So you mention you're looking at a flagpole and the flag pole is to the left of the flag flying. That's the part that's called the hoist, is the effect of the nearest the flagpole. The bit of the flag at the far end is called the fly, and if you are looking at the flag such that the flagpole is on the left, it will look to be the right way round. If you go round the other side and look at it. So the flagpole is on the right of the flag, the flag will effectively be backwards. So on aircraft bodies, they're effectively like a flagpole. So from the starboard side it will be the right way around, and from the port side. No, I'll put it the wrong way around. From the port side it will be the right way around, from the starboard side it will be backwards. So, I mean, to make things even simpler, you just need to imagine that the tail fin was made of glass and you only had a flag on one side. Yeah, yeah, that would work. There you go. So that's what I've done. There, you see, as a radio expert, is I've painted a picture in people's minds, Mike, whereas you were relying on your verbal skills to describe it. And I have created an image now in people's minds in which they immediately understand what you just brilliantly described. So, between us, we've done words and pictures. What a team. What a team. You can keep the round of applause, though, mate. I've got them coming out my ears. Thank you. No, thank you. Oh, hang on. Qualifications? I'm a glider pilot. We don't have flags, typically. Yeah, we don't typically have flags on gliders, but I'm a bit of an aviation buff, so I read that years ago. What if you were doing a bit of gliding near a border of another club? Would you need one then? Well, the club record from the club that I fly at in Devon. Yeah. So imagine this taking off early in the morning and flying all day without touching the ground. The club record is Germany. No, seriously, I had no idea. Yeah, yeah. Pretty amazing effort by a chap called William. Well done, Will, some years ago. What's the appeal of gliding as opposed to a small engine plane? Well, I think it's the difference between sailing on canvas and a power boat. So there's a bit, I think, a bit more skill to it. You've got to read the sky, read the weather, work out how it's all going to pan out on the days. A bit more to it. And you're a bit more in tune with nature, I suppose, aren't you? As opposed to battling it, as it were. I've always been fascinated. I think I'm too old now. I don't know about you, but I've become less bold as I've got older. But I would have really loved to go on a glider flight when I was younger, but now I think I'd get the Willies now. You don't need boldness. There's a saying in flying that you get old pilots and bold pilots, but you don't get old bold. I've never heard that before. Yes, I rather like it. Thank you, Mike. Stay safe. Don't be bold. Don't be bold. You can't help being old. None of us can. 25 minutes after twelve is time. Jennifer is in Stilton. Jennifer, question or answer? Hey, buddy. You okay? Very well, mate. How are you? I'm well. I've been better. So I keep. Sorry if I stumble on my words, by the way, I keep having strokes, so I've had two and because of that, I keep on having mris. Oh, my God. Okay, so this is where the question comes from. So I have my MRI and I'm fascinated. I appreciate that. They're obviously, the pictures sort through a magnetic field, but they are so loud, like it'll go clock, clock. They are extraordinarily loud. Oddly, for reasons that I won't go into. I was in the room with an MRI scanner just two weeks ago, Jen, and I thought it was like a really bad drum and bass dj. There was a kind. Because some of the noises coming out of that machine, they give you. They give you earplugs. They give you earplugs, but still. And it goes. Me trying to visualize it. Yeah, but I just. I. And obviously, given technology these days, and you'd have thought someone might have come up with a quiet one by now. Sound waves. They're probably sending sound waves through your brain. So they can't. No, not that. No, no, they can't, because you can have it on all different parts of the body. Do you know that? You won't believe this, but every year, on about four separate occasions, something happens in my life that makes me think, oh, I must remember to ask that on mystery hour. And then every single time, I forget, and that is only about two, three weeks old, that question for me and I really. And there it is. You've got it. You've got it in there. I've been sent. I've been sent just for it. Sent from heaven. And thank you for all the presents you keep sending in as well. Certainly generous of you. The crinkle cut, the seabrook prawn cocktail crisps went down particularly well at crisp. Although I did feel bad about thinking about how you'd get them home on public transport. I worked it out. I ate them all. I ate them on the day they arrived. Jen, you take care of yourself, all right? Stay safe and stay strong. I'm sorry for what you're going through. It's 28 after twelve is the time. Why are they so loud? If you've never been? I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy, but my God, they're loud. Zero. 345-606-0973 Lewis is in Putney. Lewis, question or answer? Answer, James. I'm here to correct the record left handedness. Yes, because I answered this about two years ago on this tria and then I looked it up and found out I was wrong. Oh, hang on. Well, first of all, can we. Can we withdraw Lewis's round of applause, please, Keith? Thank you very much. Carry on, Lewis. So the technical answer I gave a couple of years ago was, we don't actually know. And the technical answer is still, we don't actually know. But the theories have updated. Oh, go on. They think handedness is linked to bipedalness in mammals because you get only get left handed kangaroos or red kangaroos, and it's due to a part of the brain which is in the left hemisphere. I've forgotten. It's like BGC twelve, which is linked in humans to tool use. And they think because back in from archaeological data, like case paintings, it was always right handed tool makers. And they do think that back in, back in the ages of history, all humans would have been right handed, like all neanderthals were right handed. Okay. And it's a random mutation of genetics that has caused left handedness to come about, because certain sports, combative sports like boxing and mma, left handed boxers and fighters, have a better win rate than right handed ones because most people who are right handed expect a blow from the corresponding hand. Yes, of course. But if you're left handed, you've got that advantage. And so they think that also corresponds to a potential slight advantage. So although there is a lower level of left handedness in the population, it's a gradually increasing one. And like the lady said, so it is actually evolution in action. Yeah, that's really interesting. And it's the opposite of what my original presumption was, that there must be an evolutionary disadvantage to it because it's in such a small number, but in fact, it started from scratch in the history of humanity, and because it provides some advantage in some circumstances, it's going up, not down. Yes, and that's correct. And like you see, and you won't see it in other sports, like darts, for example, that there's no advantage to being left handed there or right handed. Well, that's a lovely answer. What about golf? I don't know about golf. I would assume the same, because it's not a combative sport. You're not like football, where you left doing most of your training, most to go, most of your sparring with it, with a right handed fighter, you get used to it, and then you get in the ring with a left handed fighter and he clocks you on exactly. Qualifications, please? A degree in medical genetics. And I looked this up a couple of years ago to make sure that mystery hour was correct, because whilst the disgraced former prime minister might not correct the record, I will look at that. Lewis showing the way, shining a light and damning the disgraced former prime minister Boris Johnson, at the same time. Round of applause for Lewis. It's about his million. Take one away and give him another one back. Straight away, Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Quite a lot of MRI related action coming in now, thanks to Jan in Stilton. This is from Paul in Manchester. I don't know why it tickled me. He goes, I had an MRI and I was so bored, I identified the various noises as follows. He actually uses the word thus one of my favorite words. Star wars phases. That's. That's. Yeah. Should I do all of them, or would that be weird? Avant garde fifties score melodrama? Yeah, that's a sort of thumpy drummy one, isn't it? I can't do that one, mate. I could barely do Star wars phases. Bouncing ball followed by pneumatic drill. We all recognize Tommy Gunn stamping machine that turns into a nuclear reactor alarm. That's. That's another one. I recognize the bouncing ball, but heavier. You've got a lovely way with wordsball. In fact, looking at this all laid out on my screen, it looks like a poem. In the first two scans, there was also a Hammond organ. Occasional techno beats. We had quite a lot of techno beats and an occasional tapping, like kids are viewing you through the one way glass. It is a veritable potpourri of sound effects, most of which, as genetests, are incredibly loud. Now, that's a very jolly MRI related contribution to the program. This one is less cheering for me, at least, although it'll probably tickle you. Dean's been in touch. He says, I had an MRI last year, James. It was at 10:00 a.m. And they asked me what radio station I wanted on my headphones. So I said, lBC, please. And afterwards, the nurse said, it goes on a bit, doesn't he, after one of your monologues? Hey, you can't do that. Outrageous. Duncan's in Richmond. Duncan. Question or answer? Hello, mate. It's a question. Please carry on. Has the gestation period for our species always been the same or has it changed through evolution? Why'd you ask? We've just had a baby. She's nine weeks old now and I was watching her in a break time, a rare break. I was watching a documentary, a National Geographic documentary, and these little baby monkeys can grip their mum on day one. And I thought, you know, our baby, as all human babies, are completely helpless, so have we. When we were, you know, years and years, millennia ago, as we've evolved, were we able to do that? And has it has it changed? And funnily enough, monkeys gestation period seem to be shorter than ours. Are there any other mammals that are utterly. There are quite a few that are utterly helpless when they're born. But not. Not very long. Not for very long. Yeah. I mean, if you think of horses, they can. They can walk on the first day of birth, the first day of life, can't they? So we. We're just so underdeveloped. So has it always been like that or did we? Well, hang on a minute. That's a bit anti human, mate. It's a bit humanish. Maybe. Maybe all the other animals are overdeveloped. Have you ever thought of that? Well, yeah, it could be. So has it always been a nine month? Has it always been nine months? I presume it has, but it's a nice question. It's surprising how many questions have a sort of evolutionary flavor on this program. It must say something about the stuff that we. That we wonder about. Duncan, congratulations on the new arrival. I'll try and get you an answer to that. 1238 is the time. What have we got? Why did temperatures feel like. And we got two temperatures on the average app. One will tell you the temperature and the other will tell you what it feels like. What's going on there? We've done the flags on a plane. We've done the left handed. That was Lewis. Stick of butter. What's a stick of butter all about? What's a stick of butter all. It sounds like a George Formby song. What a stick of butter all about umbilical cords. What do other mammals do with umbilical cords? Don't look at me like that off the cuff comedy references. Why are MRI scanners so loud? And have humans always had the same gestation period? I like all of these questions this week. Sandra's in Helston in Cornwall. Sandra, question or answer? It's an answer. Hi. It's an answer to the umbilical cord. Okay. Yes. So the umbilical cord doesn't contain a huge amount of blood, and it will only deliver blood for as long as the placenta is still attached to the wall of the uterus. As soon as the placenta detaches, there's no longer an active blood flow. So you can just chew your way through it and then it'll just probably wither off a bit like our infants do, you know, we clamp and cut the cord. We try and do delayed cord clamping now, because when the baby is born, a third of its blood volume is still in the placenta. So we give it time to come back. It's called placental transfusion, and that protects them against childhood anemia and stuff like that. So then we clamp and cut the cord. And effectively, that there's a valve inside the abdomen at the umbilical cord base that then closes so that blood flow is no longer part of its circulating volume. Isn't that interesting? So the majority of animals will, when the cord has stoppable spread, pulsating, just chew through it. In mammals that are really tall. So like elephants and giraffe. Yes. I knew you were going to say giraffes. Their infants fall to the ground and the cord snaps. Oh, Lord. But because they're larger animals, they have a greater circulating volume, so they can afford to lose a little bit, so it doesn't affect them adversely. Well, that's a very comprehensive answer, Sandra. Thank you. What's your qualification? I'm a midwife. I could also answer the gestation question. You're not allowed to. I'm not allowed to, no. I've got very strict, very strict rules. Very strict rules. But you've got yourself a round of applause. So thank you very much and congratulations to. Yes, to Duncan and his partner. Thank you, Sandra, love, that's a lovely answer. Sometimes you can tell as an answer comes in that you're never going to forget it. And other times I've forgotten it before the program was finished. I don't know why. I guess that some people are good communicators. I'm not going to insult anyone by suggesting some of the answers we've had already that I've already forgotten. But I shall always remember Sandra's answer, I think, until, of course, someone rings in and asks the same question, at which point, no doubt, you'll be queuing up to point out that I've already forgotten the answer. I said I'd never forget. Deborah's in Swanscombe. Deborah. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. When. When somebody passes away. Yeah. And they have tattoos. Oh, yeah. Do those tattoos retain their color? Do they go instantly? Do they not go? Do they not. Do they not remove them and give them to the family? Well, I never thought of that. Well, possibly they photocopy them for posterity. I don't know. I never thought of that either. No, I don't know. And I hesitate to ask why you want to know now that I've made two very poor jokes about the prospect of, oh, no, you don't want to ask. You don't want to ask no, I'm not going to ask. I'm not going to ask. But, I mean, what makes you think they might change? Just because the skin has changed, the canvas has changed, therefore the art might have changed as well. Well, I'm not sure, because for some reason in my head, I've got it that your blood has got something to do with your skin. So the blood's gone, then, with the skin, would it change? I mean, I assume as the body dries out, it would change, but not. Not immediately. On death, I wouldn't. I'll find out what happens to your tattoos after you die. Yeah. Crikey, that's. I really want to know why you want to know now, but I can't ask you because I can tell you if you like. Well, will it make my two jokes look really insensitive? No. You promise? Because you can't just say it won't and then I end up looking really intensitive. No. Why do you want to know? Well, because I've got tattoos. Oh, that's. So. I just wonder whether they would, you know, eventually go, yeah, you could. I mean, I don't know. I won't do any more poor jokes. I think I was riding by the seat, my pants already on that one. So what will happen to Deborah's tattoos in the horrible event, and hopefully long distance event of her shuffling off this mortal coil? 1012 even 42 is the time. Greg's in Gloucester. Greg, question or answer? Hello, James. Hello. Hi. It's a question. How are you? You're right, yeah. Very well. Yeah. I want to know why albums are called albums. Right? Because. Actually know this, but carry on. Well, the word album means white, or albus means white. So we've got the Beatles releasing the white white. Um, you and I probably put photos in a photo album. Album. Men is white. Yeah. That comes from Albus, meaning white. Oh, okay. Go on then. Yeah. So. And if you. If you look. If you look up the word, it says Albus or album. Yeah, but. So what? So. But album, as in a collection of things, has nothing to do with, uh, the color white. It's. It's according to any source that I've seen. Yeah, I've been curious about this for a while. Go on. It stems from the same latin word meaning white. I see. I know why they're called albums even though there's only one of them. But that's not the question that you're going to ask, is it? But I'm going to answer anyway because it gives me a good opportunity to recommend that everybody visits the Brentford Musical Museum, or the musical. The musical museum in Brentford, which I read recently is facing financial struggles post COVID, and where you will have most entertaining and enlightening time, but particularly in the field of pianolas. So these, these were incredibly desirable items in the sort of turn of the century, late victorian period. You'd have a pianola in your house and you'd have a load of things, you know, the pianos that play themselves. Yeah. And you'd have an out, so that you'd have a collection of music that you played in it. And that was called an album. And then that slowly evolved, as you know, to become just one record, and you'd still call it an album, which is both. Interesting. So why then, do stamp collectors collect their stamps in a stamp white? Well, that's the point I'm making now, is that this is not fascinating, though it is, and timely and also community spirited of me to recommend the musical museum in Brentford, where they also, Greg, they also have a fully functioning Wurlitzer organ. And it's one of the only places in the country where you can watch a silent film with full. Yeah, full. Well, it's a company, so you can watch like an Errol Flynn film or something like that. And they're the musical museum in Brentford, and there are a few people in the country who are still expert at playing and all that. That's, of course, where the phrase bells and whistles come from, because they can play all the bells and whistles. So you've got things like, you know, stagecoach sound effects and bells ringing and horns, and it's all coming from the same amazing organ. And you can go there and, and, and watch it. But they are, I've read this week, struggling, and I think it was in the local paper. So do fun. But anyway, what's it got to do with white, is the question you're asking. It is, yeah. I mean, why? You and I have a similar age. We probably used to collect photos, and we put them in a photo. Could it be that the. The white contains the yolk? Well. Well, albumen. Yes, albumen is the egg white. Is the egg white. But what came first? Which means white. What came first, though, the album or the egg? So what does a stamp album have to do with an egg white? It contains the stamps in the way that the egg white encloses the yolk. Okay, that's interesting. So next time I listen to the official, on another radio station, listen to the official white charts on a weekend, I shall remember I'm not. I'm not giving myself a round of applause for this. Craig, as things stand, can I just give a quick shout out to the glider guy because he gave the old and bold pilots quotes. And that was quoted in a Disney film in the seventies called the Black Hole by a robot called Vincent. And I'm a proud owner of the limited edition of one of the original soundtrack whites. Jack White's well played. I mean, it's all happening on the show today, isn't it? I like that question, actually. But there may be. Why is an album called an album when the root of the word would appear to be from the Latin for white? Zero? 345-606-0973 great work, Greg. 1247 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1250 is the time. What happens to tattoos when the bearer perishes? Have humans always had the same gestation period? Why are MRI scanners so long? We've done the umbilical cord and what's the stick of butter all about? And what was Ollie's question? I've forgotten Ollie's question. I've even written it down. I can't read my own writing. Oh yeah. The temperature I've written. Sorry, sometimes my doodles get in the way of my doodles. Jack's in St. Albans. Jack. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, mate. So why are MRI scanners so loud? Yeah, so it's in the. There's a bit of a clue in the names there. Magnetic resonance imaging machines. It's a large magnet spinning round and changing direction to distance. Total imagery on you? Well, I mean, I've got. I've got. I've kind of large things spinning around quite often. They don't make anything like the racket that an MRI makes. The change in direction as well. And the proximity you are to it. And it's very heavy. So the machinery used to move it. It makes a lot of noise as well. Yeah. I suppose before I start expressing more skepticism of what your qualifications are, I should. Skepticism what your answer is. I should establish what your qualifications are. Qualifications? I've had an inordinate amount of MRI scanners in my lifetime. In my lifetime. Oh, you poor thing. And you asked. You got to develop a taste for it. Jack. Do you start sort of thinking, oh, I love this one. This is my favorite trick. Crack. I can fall asleep in them now. Can you really? Yeah. Gosh. And you've asked, presumably in the hospital. I've asked the radiographers what the big noise. And Dave, it's the mechanicals. The mechanicals of moving the magnet, essentially. Yeah. Right. That's a perfect answer. Round of applause for you. Thank you. Are you still having a lot? Are you still in the. In the woods as well? Yeah. All right. Annual fun of them. It just talk to life into. Well, apparently you can put me on the radio and then a nurse will come up to you afterwards and say, plummy, he goes on a bit, doesn't he? So I'll be on next time. There's that to look forward to. Jack. Take care of yourself, mate. Thank you for that. It's a cracking answer. 1252 is the time. So Jack's gone in on the mris. Greg asked the question about the albums. Darren, meanwhile, is in Plymouth. Darren, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. The answer to the feels like temperature versus the actual temperature. Yes, please. Is the function of your human body's ability to get rid of our body heat. So the actual temperature and the feels of temperature would be very similar in light winds and fairly average humidity, around about 80%. But if the wind is increasing, therefore makes it windier, makes your body's ability to lose heat even faster, therefore it feels like a lower temperature. However, if the humidity increases past 80, up to 90 95%, your human body ability to sweat decreases massively. Therefore, if it was like a higher temperature. Well, I never. And how do they put a number on the temperature? Do they use calculations? Is it an algorithm into which you punch humidity, temperature as well as uv index as well, so they don't send someone out into the street? Well, they wouldn't, would they? Because with a different. I think they did that once, and then we've got a calculation from that. We don't do that. That's a cracking answer. Thank you. Hang on. What are your qualifications? I'm a meteorologist in the Royal Navy. Oh, well, that's a cool job. It's a pretty cool job. That is a cool. I mean, you live and learn, don't you? Never cross my mind. So does each ship have its own meteorologist or do you work from shore? So most will have their own. Most officers are trained in some way, shape or form in meteorology, but then we also have a shore establishment, which then gives support to other, other units, which is where I work. And you're a uniformed member of the Royal Navy as well? That's right. And on the left side of my uniform, the flag is the right way around. Well played. Very well played. Round of applause for Darren. That's called comedic callback. Well done, mate. 1254 is the time David's in men. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on about tattoos. So I was fortunate enough to be with both of my parents at the time they passed and held their hands. And when a person passes, almost instantly, you can see the skin, the color of it and the texture change. My dad had lots of kind of sailor type tattoos and when he passed, his skin became kind of translucent, so you could almost see through it. But the. And I don't know the scientific reasons, but the colors do slightly change. So in my dad's case, some of the reds became slightly more vivid, the blacks became a little bit duller, but the tattoos were still there. And I visited a few times before they closed the casket and then they were still there. And even over time, the skin changes and I guess it would depend what it was. I think it was Brenda, what she has done when she is with. When she passes. Because my dad was embalmed, my mom wasn't. So. And the texture of my father's skin was very different to my mum's because she wasn't embalmed and he was. So I don't know what the scientific reason is for that. But she'll still have her tattoos and they'll still be there for her family to see when. When. When they visit her when the time comes. What a lovely answer. I'm sorry you're so well qualified to answer it, really, David. Well, it happens to us all, doesn't it? This is very, very. Tattoos or not. Tattoos or not. Okay, round of applause for David, please. Thank you, mate. Lovely stuff. Dan zinc. Croydon. Dan. Question or answer? Hello, James May. It is an answer. Carry on. Albums. Yes. The word can also be translated as blank and so spanish. Blank Blanco. So you'll have a photo album that you get as a blank album and you put it in. Musically, it goes right back to the early nineties. No, it goes back further. So it is white. It's the thing. They used to have it in the marketplace in ancient Rome. So you'd have a chalked up space that you could then write stuff on, like, you know, as a jumble sale this Thursday at 02:00 or. Sorry, in that. A jumble of sale this Thursday at. So our bus or our bow or something. So, yes, that's it exactly. And then you tie that into music with the blank music sheets where they would then write the notation that then became a piece of music, which then became an album. And that's how we've got modern day albums with music. Beautiful so it's a space into which you put stuff, essentially, but it's got nothing whatsoever to do with eggs. No, unfortunately. Qualifications. I've been a touring musician for 20 years and did some music theory study. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Dan. Thanks, mate. Thank you, mate. And Dara is in Manchester. Dara, question or answer? Answer, James. On the MRI question, it's stewards inquiry, Stewart's inquiry or a simple embellishment and improvement on the original. Pretty much a steward's inquiry. Nothing actually moves in an MRI scanner. It doesn't actually spin. Right. So there's three real things in an MRI scanner that make the noises. So when you walk into the MRI scanner, there's a kind of a background noise that makes a kind of a dunk dunk noise every couple of seconds. That's what's called the cold head. That's a compressor recompressing the helium. Right. So that it compresses it back into liquid helium. Because it's a main magnetic field, the main coil is bathed in liquid helium. It's a superconducting magnet. Wow. Then there's what we call an RF coil, radio frequency coil, which sits kind of closest to your head and that makes those kind of chirpy noises, the cheap, cheap kind of high pitched noises. So it's a bit like being in a fax machine, doesn't it, having an MRI scan? Yeah. And then outside the RF coil, there's a gradient coil, which is what makes the kind of big, more substantial. Bang used. A detailed answer, but I sense you've barely started and Sheila Fogarty's already in the room. That's the three things that make the three noises. Nothing spins, but what we do is we rotate the magnetic field in the coil. Nothing actually physically moves. And there's the three things that generate three different types of noise that you heard. Answer. What are your qualifications, Dara? I have a PhD in neuroimaging and psychiatry. Well, that answers that question. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great stuff. I think we're done, aren't we? I. Board game. Come on. I mean, crikey, this week I'm going to give it to Duncan because he didn't get an answer and he's got a new baby. So Duncan and Duncan's partner will be able to play the mystery hour board game when perhaps baby's not sleeping that well and that it's only nine weeks old. She's a good idea. There are a lot of contenders this week and Janin Stilton's already got one because I know that she took it to hospital and everyone on the ward enjoyed playing it as well. So there you go. That's it. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on Global Player, the official LBC app, where you could also pause and rewind live radio. Download it now for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.