Why don't birds on telephone wires, frazzle?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Five minutes after twelve minutes of time and I will not be taking any questions about freudian slips. Okay, just so that we're all clear on that. I will, however, be taking questions on pretty much any other subject under the sun, because this is mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you're new to this feature, then you should know very simply that if you have a mystery, and by that I mean a question to which you know there must be an answer, you're just struggling to find out what it is. Your curiosity has been pricked but your satisfaction has not yet been delivered, then the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 and somebody else listening to the program will know the answer to your question and they'll ring in with it and hopefully achieve a mystery hour. Round of applause. And if their qualifications for answering the question scale dizzying heights of appropriateness, they may receive the finest honour available anywhere on british radio. Six minutes after twelve. Give me a call then. What is your question? You have. I mean, really, anything goes. It's a feature that invites you to ring in and ask anything you want about the world around us. I mean, it can be silly, it can be scientific, it can be serious, it can be lighthearted, it can even occasionally be heavy hearted. The point is that you're not allowed to look anything up if you answer it. If you're going to answer a question. The rules really refer only to people answering questions these days, as opposed to people asking them. We have a sort of residual resentment of questions about motoring. But to be honest with you, that was born of my own failings as a human being when this feature was started, when my very, very late arrival at being able to drive kind of made me sneery about people who obsessed about cars and motoring. In retrospect, I was being a bit of an idiot. I could be presenting Top Gear now if I'd sorted myself out a little sooner. All right, maybe not. But the point is this. Repetition is our enemy. But we're not massive on repetition because it's been going on for so long, we can't remember everything. And the people answering questions need to be drawing upon their knowledge. 456-06-0973 to answer the question. So I say to you, what are your qualifications? You say to me, I have a PhD in applied mathematics, or I saw it on the telly last night, James? It was on Mythbusters or something like that. The point being that there are no real regulations for qualifications. It's simply a way of establishing why you know what it is that you know. And whether we are persuaded that your answer is therefore definitive. Are we clear? Is there anything else? If you're new to it, you can just have a listen and work out just how wide open the goalposts are. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I think we'll just crack on, shall we? We could all do with a little bit of light relief with the skip fire. That is modern british politics, and that's not going to get any better anytime soon. Eight minutes after twelve is time. Richard is in Beverly. Richard, what would you like to say? Hi, James. Big fan of the show. I just want to know, do magnets get weaker when approaches are bigger objects? What, you mean if you stick a magnet on a massive car, will it run out of magnetism faster than it would if you stuck it on a tin can? Correct. Yeah. Well, I mean, you'd think not, wouldn't you? I mean, it's not. Magnetism doesn't. It's not. Doesn't. It doesn't do osmosis, does it? I don't know. Whoa. I don't know. Blimey. Keith's on form today. I did that. Still. It's still in place. Is it? That algorithm? I had no idea. I don't think. It doesn't leap. Magnetism doesn't leech out. So, no. Do you know how I know? How do you know? Because if you stuck a magnet on something, right, it would never fall off. Correct. So if it were diminishing in magnetic power according to any other variable, be it time or size of object, magnetized, then at some point it would fall off, wouldn't it? No, I'm not sure. I'm not sure. But if you had a battery. If you have a battery. The way I'm coming at this is if you've got a battery and you try and run something that's too big off the battery, the battery won't power it. A magnet is a given size object. How come it doesn't get weaker? Because it's full of electric. Because magnetic energy is not the same as. Or magnetism is not electricity, is it? Fair enough. James, you don't charge up where you kind of do. Do you know? I'm coming across as mildly condescending, which is obviously very rare for me when I condescend to a questioner on mystery hour. Almost always it's me that ends up looking stupid by close the plate. And Keith's got that look on his face. Richard, I gotta tell you, Keith's got that look on his face. He thinks I'm sounding stupid. He's just nodded. I think you might. I think you might be alright. Yeah, I think you might be all right on this one. I'm putting it on the board. Magnets get weaker when applied to stronger objects. I think if I. If I were Richard, I probably would have shortened it. Do. Do magnets get weaker? And then it's a yes no answer and we bring in the why. So I'm sticking to my guns on the size of the object bit of it, and my explanation that if magnets did get weaker in that way, then surely at some point they'd fall off the thing they were stuck to. We shall see. And it's a perfect opening question because it's sort of got a bit of everything, hasn't it? Science, silliness, sneering, condescending presenter. It's like a. It's like a bingo sheet of brilliance. Katrina is in Edinburgh. Katrina, what would you like to say? No, it's Gabriella, actually. Well, sorry, no, I've done. I've already used up all my Gabriella's for this week. I need a Katrina. Katrina's my daughter and she's running in the. I've got quotas, Gabriella. I've got quotas. I can't. I need another katrina to keep my quotas up this week. Gabriella. Gabriella is in Edinburgh. Question or answer? Gabriella? Question. Question. Yes. Why don't you know the phrase birds on a wire? You know, like, you'll see birds on electricity wire. Is it a phrase or is it a Leonard Cohen song? Why don't they frazzle? Why don't they fry up? Because when I was a kid, I was told, never run a kite underneath a table, you'll fry. And there's your answer, you see? Well, why didn't they fry? Because they're not earthed. And if you had a string attached to the bird's foot and you were holding the string on the ground, then you'd both fry. Thank you. You're very welcome. Do you know Gabriela? Yes. It's not often, and I hesitate to say this out loud, because it probably will involve a large slice of humble pie arriving in the studio imminently, but I very, very rarely get the opportunity to sound knowledgeable about anything remotely scientific. So I'd like to thank you from the bottom of my heart. Today's your day. Today's my day. Round of applause for me. And by the way, don't forget to give our best to Katrina, will you? I will do. Thank you very much. There we go, Gabriella. Thank you. I think there might be something wrong with my screen at this point. I'm going to go out on a limb and say that your name, line one, is not actually Dewsbury. That's probably where you're calling from. It is where I'm calling from, yeah. And your name is? Jonathan in Dewsbury, not Dewsbury. That would be quite a nice name. Dewsbury could catch on there. Imagine if David and Victoria Beckham had called, conceived their youngest in Dewsbury. We'd have Dewsbury instead of Brooklyn. Beckham. Question or answer? To use Britt. Jonathan. Question. Carry on. Well, I'd like to know where the modern game of chess came from. I really enjoy playing chess now. I believe it's linked to a game that either is or was played in India. But the modern game we know has sort of medieval qualities about it. I think it's older than that. Have you heard of the Lewis chessmen? I haven't, no. Oh, mate. Well, two things. Number one, brilliant thriller by Peter May, I think, wrote it, and the Lewis chessmen feature in it. Peter May's books are all brilliant. I've got a massive thriller recommendation to drop before the end of the show today. Don't let me forget, Keith. But they found ancient chess pieces on the Isle of Lewis. And I think it was vikings that brought them over, which would predate pre medieval. So I think that's going to be close or involved in the answer. But I love the question. I really love it. Yeah, well, we've got to be able to get an answer. Origins of the game of chess. Most things originate in the east, but I think that one's northern Europe. We'll find out. Great question, Jonathan. Can we adjust the record so that I don't call him Dewsbury next time he rings in, please? Thank you very much. 1214 is the time. Does the modern game of chess originate? And do magnets get weaker? According to the size of the metal thing? What, they are stuck to zero. 345-606-0973 and just forgive me for polluting mystery hour with news, but one of the journalists that I respect most in the world has added his thoughts to that European Union legal action announced earlier. I think we fell foul a bit. I think I might have fallen victim to liveitis because it broke just as I came on. I may have got a little bit more excited than perhaps I should have done, because Pete Foster of the Financial Times, one of the very few people on the planet to whom I bow when it comes to understanding a knowledge of Brexit, has responded by saying, it seems like a meh meh holding move to me. At first blush, the UK needs to reply in a month, by which time we know. We don't know. Deal? Stroke? No deal either. UK will have to drop clauses to her deal through EU parliament. It's a holding play that satisfies EU honour as I see it. Johnson would be wise not to milk it. We shall see. It's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 17 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Noah is in. It's quite funny that. Good luck getting your quotas for people called Dewsbury to ring in. Thank you, Fraser. Good work paying attention. We should give prizes for people who are paying attention above and beyond the call of duty. Noah's in Peterborough. Noah, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. James. Carry on. It's an answer to the question about magnets. Yes. And the answer is that magnets do lose their magnetic pull over time, but it's not a consequence of how big the thing that the magnet is attached to is. Ah, yes. So, yes, so I was right and wrong, sort of, yeah. You could put a magnet on a fridge or you could put a magnet on, like, an aircraft carrier and they would both eventually fall off, but it's not consequence. The one on the aircraft carrier wouldn't fall off any. Any sooner. And this is because the magnet isn't doing any work where work is force times distance. No, the. The way the magnets work, it's a consequence of the. Of the. Of the atoms aligning towards. Hang on a minute, I've got to listen to your answer properly. I just need to put my hands up and say sometimes when. And I've got absolutely no idea what's going on. I read out a tweet from someone else that looks clever, in the hope of passing it off as my own understanding. No. May I just. Thank you for knocking my nonsense, which I'm going to blame on Doug, because that's whose Twitter account I got it off, and he's got a PhD in physics. I don't want to start a physics war, but thank you. For treating my cheating there with the utter, utter contempt it so clearly deserves. Just talk us through the physics, if you would. Well, I'm afraid that your physics PhD Twitter correspondent might be better placed than I am when you hear my qualifications. But it's a. It's a consequence of the. Of the. Of the atoms within the. Within the magnet aligning towards magnetic north. Right. And that. That is not diminished by the. By the size of the object to which they are. To which they're magnetically attracted. That sounds perfect to me. Qualifications? Well, my qualifications are that I'm a guitarist and guitar. Yeah, okay. Guitar pickup. In electricity pickups and electric guitars use magnets. And if you have a vintage guitar from, like the fifties or the sixties, part of the reason that they sound the way they do is because those magnets are now have lost a little bit of their pull. So the magnetic force exerted on the strings is slightly less than the guitar that you would get from the factory. So the reason why electric guitars sound the way they do, and they often said to sound a bit mellower or a bit less spiky, and that's because the magnets are just a little bit worn out, that's all. Okay. No, that is a beautiful answer in all sorts of ways. Have a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you, Noah. Ian is in Barnsley. Ian. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. My question is, why do all, or at least 99% of garden center trolleys only have two wheels, as opposed to 499 percent, in my experience. Yeah, they are two wheels. Who do you think you are, Digby Jones? You can't have those sort of statements which are utterly backed up by knowledge or evidence. I know I'm right. What about german garden centers? How many wheels do german garden. So you mean like the. They're like scales, aren't they? And the wheels are in the middle and they're like. Yeah, like the fulcrum on some scales. Exactly, yeah. And it either happens that they. They tip one way or the other, or the plants fall over, or some of them have those sort of little, sort of protrusions to stop that happening, which makes them almost impossible to push. And I just wonder why. Why not? Four wheels? And this is cut. This is. This is cut deep, Ian. Hasn't it? Over the years? It really has. I can tell, mate. I admire your sang froid in the face of such appalling adversity, but it's possible you're doing it wrong. You realize that? Well, I don't know, but if it really is as unfit for purpose as you describe. And I do have some experience of this. Then it may be that it's your trolley technique that's at fault, not the wheel to trolley ratio. Quite possibly all those years of training have been wasted. They'll probably be announcing digital courses soon and pretending that it's a solution to Brexit, mate. So stand by your phone, let's find out. Why do garden center trolleys have that? They're like scales, you know, everyone can envision scales. It's true. Like a seesaw. Thank you, Keith. That's why we pay you the silly money. They're just like a seesaw. Why? Because there's same in b and Q sometimes. You know, the ones you get in b and Q that are see saws rather than trots. Yeah. Everyone knows what I'm talking about. Ring in and answer the question. Zero. 345-606-0973 Anthony's in Cardiff. Anthony, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Excellent. Go on. Yeah, it's about the chess. When. Where does it come from, then? Egypt. Gone. It actually stems from ancient egyptian game called kness. Does it? Yeah. And it's just been modified over the years. Makes sense, doesn't it? Because, you know, it's a really, really good game. So you can see how it would. It would only take one person to arrive in Cardiff from. From Cairo. Oh, nice alliteration. It teach one person to do it, one of your ancestors, and the next thing you know, everyone in Wales is playing chess, or worse to that effect. What are your qualifications? I love the egyptian history and egyptian mythology. I watch, read anything about it on telling and in books. So the. So the chess is not a massive part of your knowledge base, it's the egyptian connection that led you to this answer. Yes. You don't know about the Lewis chessmen? No, because that fits. I mean, that just means that the Vikings got it off via ancient Egypt. Beautiful answer. Thank you. Kness. How do you spell kness before you go? I think it's k e n e s. Kness. Kness, yeah. Love it. Round of applause for Anthony, please. Do you know what I could do if I was a really unpleasant person? I could ask every caller, because I noticed that we're very national today. We're up and down at the nations of the United Kingdom. Ask every caller to describe in a sentence precisely what the lockdown restrictions are currently where they are. That would be very illustrative, but I think we've probably made the point powerfully enough in the last hour, and we don't want to pollute mystery hour with, you know, grown up stuff. Brendan is in Canterbury. Brendan, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. My six year old opened her umbrella inside this morning on the school run, and my instant reaction was, don't do that, it's unlucky. Yeah, but I have no idea. Where has it come from? And why do I say it? Apart from. Well, I mean, most obviously you're gonna. You're gonna. I mean, it's not a great thing to be doing, is it, waving an umbrella around indoors? You might knock an ornament off the mantelpiece, Brendan. And from that evolves a superstition, perhaps. Yeah, but for how long? It's not gonna wash with any six year olds, that, is it? No, no, not this one. So if you open the umbrella indoors, it makes it more likely to rain outside when you go out? Well, it was already raining. No, I know. Crikey. It's not science, mate. It's superstition, isn't it? We don't need to analyze it. Why is it unlucky to open an umbrella indoors? Why is anything regarded. Why is it unlucky? My mum used to have a thing about birds, you know, like model. Having a bird in the house. A model bird in the house was bad luck as well, or spilling salt and all that. I mean, who knows? But I like this one. Why is it unlucky to open umbrella indoors? I think it's probably an old wives tale invented to stop people opening umbrellas indoors so that they wouldn't knock ornaments off the mantelpiece, so to speak. Chris is in Ealing. Chris, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. A question, please. Carry on, Chris. Okay. My daughter this morning was saying that tomorrow she's allowed to go into school non uniform. So we were talking and the word musty came up to describe non uniform. And the question is, where does the word mufti come from to describe non uniform? I don't understand that word. I do. I actually know that this. I think we must have had. We must have had it before, I think. But anyway, mufti is a muslim scholar, an islamic quranic scholar, and when the british army was in the 19th century, riding roughshod all over the world and helping itself to whatever it wanted, or depending on where you sit in the culture war, preparing the ground for massive arguments about rice packets and audience sing alongs at events with no audiences, then they would, when off duty, tried to dress like the native, sometimes as a sort of. Sort of a form of integration, if you will, and therefore dressing not in uniform, but wearing a robe and perhaps a tasseled hat, would be known as going mufti. Well, that's fantastic. I mean, it's a wine, isn't it? It's pretty good. That's brilliant. Thank you very much. I'll let her know when she gets home today. Great. So you have to send her to school tomorrow in middle eastern robes and when I think that that might surprise a few people. But she'll be the winner, though. That's the point. She will be the winner. Chris. Thank you very much. Round of applause for me, Chris. To Chris. This one's in Kingsley in Hampshire. Chris, question or answer? Hi, James. Here's the question. Carry on. Why does hair lose its colour when you age? Are you after the science or the epic unfairness of it? More the science. It's got to be the science, hasn't it? Because the epic unfairness is a question for the ages. We could be asking why your hair falls out and some people doesn't. Do you know, Nick Ferrari's producer, Dave, has got hair that you wouldn't believe. It's like a personal affront to all of us who are a little bit thin on top. Chris, he's got the thickest, most luxuriant, lovely hair you could ever imagine in your life. So it's got absolutely nothing to do with hair loss. That's why I just think going silver or going white is usually associated with being old. But what is it? What is it in the hair? Must be. Something must be running out or depleting, mustn't it? But we will. What's the stop a nine year old having white hair, for example? It does happen occasionally. I know there is. I don't think it's an old wives tale to say that sometimes your hair does go white or grey overnight when you've had a massive shock. I think there have been recorded cases almost of that. But let's find out what's happening. Why does your hair lose its color, go grey or white as you age? And as I ask that question, I do actually find myself wondering why some of us go grey while some of us do go white. You know, it's a sort of aesthetic distinction, isn't it? Can we squeeze in one more? Verity is in Brighton. Verity, question or answer? Hi, James. How are you doing? Very well indeed. Good, good. It's just a quick student inquiry. Oh, I'll be the judge. I'll be the judge. I'll be the judge of that. Thank you very much. Okay. It's slightly pedantic. So the question about chess was, what's the origin of the modern game of chess? Yes. And so the caller was absolutely right. Chess goes back about 1500 years, possibly longer. But the modern game of chess, there's a distinct change that happened, which I believe was in. Goes back to a spanish development in the game around the middle ages. Hang on, that's a big. That's very middle. Go on. So I can tell you the development is. Yes, if you would. Because the queen and the bishop become much more powerful pieces in the game and this is a huge change. So, like now the queen can move anywhere on the board in the modern game of chess, and the bishops can move in diagonals from one end to the other. That's what we now call Queen's chess. And it was actually called at some point, it was called something like mad Queensland chess. So they've made it. It's a bit like, you know, changing the offside rule in football to try and make it more exciting. What are your qualifications? My qualifications are that at the beginning of lockdown, I got the virus and I was very tired all the time and I started playing chess against strangers on the Internet. I then bought a book, which is really good, called the history of chess in 50 moves. This is fairly strong qualifications where it is. And it was just great and I just become obsessed with chess. But the Lewis chess pieces, which were found in the 19th century, date back to the 12th or 13th. But that doesn't hold your boat below the waterline because you would say, yes, of course, they were still playing. They were still playing chess, but the queen didn't have as much power then as it does she does now. And you could use the same pieces. The game hasn't changed at all. Just like football. They changed the offside rule. Nothing changes. You don't need any new equipment. Exactly. So slightly. No, you're right, it's an improvement on the original answer, but we're certainly not withdrawing the Knesset. Round of applause. We're just giving you this one berety. Thank you. Thank you very much. 1231 is the time. Bill Overton is here with your head. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1235 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Questions that still need answers. Why does our hair go grey? That's the only one I've got left. Keith, any advance on that? Why does hair change color as we get older. Have we got any other? I don't think we have, have we? I think we're doing all right. Well done. Oh, garden center trolleys, of course. Oh, and. Yeah, all right. Sorry, I'm not exactly covering ourselves with glory here. It's because we're so distracted by the national pageant at the moment. Questions in the House of Commons a moment ago about that thing I mentioned to you earlier about chemicals. So we have today news that UK can't. No, I might spoil it. I'm not going to spoil mystery out with the b word, but I will, before close the play today, give you that news about chemicals. Another billion pounds that we've spaffed up the wall, so to speak. To coin a phrase. Back to mystery. We need to know why it's bad luck to open an umbrella indoors. We need to know why garden centre trolleys, and indeed some DIY stores are made like seesaws, which doesn't seem to be very good for usefulness. And we need to know why our hair loses its colour as we get older. Gavin's in Jersey. Gavin, question or answer? Laughing James, it is a question. Please carry on. My question is, why are essential oils called essential when we don't realistically need them? When they're not essential. So you go. I've got perfectly well through life without having any bergamot oil. I want to ask, can you describe it as an essential oil? Is it because it can't be distilled down any further? Not convinced. So if you. Well, okay, I'll try again. What is the noun from which the adjective essential derives? Not sure I would go with essence. Okay. If it's a essence, it's. It. It's not a compound, it is just what it is. It's like an elemental oil. So an essential oil is an oil that doesn't. Why didn't they call it elemental oil, then? Because it's an essence, not an element. I've done it, haven't I? This is my second science question. Just you wait there and have a think about whether or not I deserve a round of applause. I've got a special request from the producer. No more calls about chess, please. No more calls about chess. We are up to our eyeballs with calls about chess and are happy with the answers that we currently have. No more calls about chess. Chess. Checkmate. Gavin, do you think that was clear enough on chess or the essential oils on the chess? Yeah, I think you've got it there. Yeah. All right. And the essential oils. Not conventional. Come on, man. It's an essence. Essence. Essence can't be distilled down any further. It can't. So you've got a. You got a pot of stuff and you split it into all the different constituents. And when you've got the constituent unsplittable, it's an essence. And if it's an oil, it is therefore an essential oil. An oil of essence. No, there must be an essential oil special somewhere in the lab. Right. I can tell you one of them, aren't you? There's always one, Gavin. Always one. Well, I'm not having it. I'm. That's right. I'll find you someone. I'll find you a flipping aromatherapist. Will you be happy, then? Yes. You're on. Yeah. All right. Any aromatherapists out there? Why is essential oil is called essential. Good work, Gavin. Matt's in Leeds. Matt. Hi, James. How's it going? I'm pretty good. Do you know whether Andrea was allowed to visit her son in Leeds to watch him go kayaking last a couple of days ago? I don't. You're not allowed to mix with other households unless they're part of your bubble. So if she didn't go around to his house, then I think it's fine, then that's why she went kayaking. Yeah. Well, I think. Yeah, I think that's what I was asking. Do you know what this is? This is public service broadcasting live on the radio. I. Not to do it, but it's not strictly against the law. I think the only thing against the law is meeting in households or gardens. I do too. Great work. Question or answer? It's a question. Yours. Cool. So, yeah, it's basically when we're, like, traveling somewhere, why do we say we went in the car, but we'd say we went on the bus or on the train. What's the difference? Why do we use different words for those, even though they're sort of the same? If that makes sense. No, it does. It does make sense. I mean, there may not be an answer, it may just be a sort of habit of usage, mightn't it? I suppose with a bus or a train, you could think of it as a constantly circulating route, couldn't you? Onto which you hop. And you will always go in the same route, whereas in a car you've got autonomy and independence. True, but even if you're not the person driving it. I don't know. I feel like you would then. I don't know if you'd say you went on the plane or. I don't know, on. Yeah, I don't know what the. Go on a plane. Don't you go on a plane? Get on a plane. Get on the plane. Get in the back of the van. Get on the plane, get in the back of the van. That's twice today with null and I reference. I don't know what the. No, I don't either. I'd be amazed if we get an answer, but I'm going to ask because I'd love to know if there is one out there. Yeah, well, it's. Who knows? There you go. You're on. I like it. Why do we get in our car but get on the bus? Why are essential oils called, essentially? Why are garden center trolleys made like see saws? And why is it bad luck to open an umbrella indoors? And finally, why does our hair lose its color as we age? Have I said that correctly? Is in Lewisham. Hello. Hello. Hello. Did I say your name correctly? My name is Yanti. Yanti. There we go. I just want to ask, why is it a tradition for us to bring grapes to visit people who spoil either in a hospital or at home? Well, the reason is, Yanti, that a grape. Grapes. Yeah. The first thing come to your mind is to buy grapes. Yes. Because you're taking fruit to someone who's poorly, because vitamins and fruit are considered to be healthy. Right. Yeah. But why grapes? Do you mind? I'm coming to that. Jan, would you just give me a chance? So if you were to take an apple, right. Yeah. And you wanted to have a bit of fruit, you'd take a bite out of your apple and what would happen? No. Yes. The apple, you won't finish it, isn't it? Just take a bite. Correct. If you had a melon and you just wanted a little bit of fruit, what would happen to your melon? Right, I got you. But can I tell you, I think my husband's opinion is that grapes, from the Latin, vital in his life, isn't it? Yes. Vita in Latin is life. And what is Latin for grape? I don't know. Well, what's your husband talking about, then? I don't know. Vine. I suppose it's to do with the vine because they're crawling about, isn't it? The vine? Yeah. I don't know that that would. I mean, I think maybe that's sort of a reflection of their health giving qualities, but I think that it's a bit like buying a packet of sweets instead of an enormous stick of rock. It's. So. That's rather good that it's so that you can have a little bit of fruit without the rest of the fruit going off. Whereas if you were taking. It makes sense. It does, doesn't it? If you peeled an orange, you don't have an unpeeled orange rotting on your bedside table or a half eaten apple or, you know, a munched melon. Whereas with grapes, whether you've eaten ten or one, the fundamental integrity of the bunch of grapes remains and the freshness of each individual grape remains intact for the longest amount of time while the grapes remain on your hospital bedside table. Yes, but why? It comes to our mind, automatically, we think of grapes. I want to know why. Well, because someone worked out it's good to have fruit on your hospital bedside table. And then they said, what would be the best fruit to have? And then they worked out, for the reasons that we've just explored together, that it would be grapes. I think. Well, I think I'll a little bit agree with you, but why grapes? Vitis vitis vinifera. Vitis vitis vinifera is the latin, but vitis vitis vine of life. Yeah, well, all right. I mean, I can put it on the board, but I'm not going to lie to you, Yanti. I was rather proud of my answer and I feel that you've rather looked down your nose at it. No, no. But I agree with you. Oh, okay. I just want to know why grapes? Well, I think I've told you because it's the only way in which you can get manageable portions of fruity goodness with a minimal rot rate on your hospital bedside table. Okay, point taken. Thank you. Round of applause for me. Just don't ask me about Lucas aid. It's 1245 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1248. And things I need to remember before we clock off for the day. I'm going to recommend a book to you. I don't do it very often, but when I do, I do it because the author deserves a, a boost. So I wouldn't recommend a kind of Robert Galbraith book because I don't think that author does need a boost. I think recommend Richard Osmonds. He sold 200,000 copies in four weeks of his magnificent Thursday murder club, so he certainly didn't need any help from me. But if you like espionage thrillers, if you like a bit of John le Carre or Mick Heron more recently, then there's an author called Charles Cumming, who you probably already know if you are a fan of espionage thrillers, but he's got a new one out called box 88. And it's absolutely brilliant. So if you're looking for a book to get lost in for a few days, then box 88 by Charles Cumming is the book that you want. And, you know, one of the most brilliant things about it is that quite early on in the story, right, the hero gets in a taxi and the taxi driver is listening to the radio and guess who's on the radio? That suspense, that is. You're gonna have to buy the book to find out. Guess who gets. Seriously, though, guess. Guess. Guess who? I'm not gonna tell you. Not gonna tell you. Tina's in green for Tina. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Tina. So the reason why hair loses color is as you get older, you lose melanin in your hair follicles. Now, that loses the color in your hair. But in regards to why it looks gray is hair doesn't actually. It appears gray. So, for example, I've got dark hair. When I start losing color in the next decade or so, it's going to appear gray because. And black hair. And from a distance, it does appear gray, but it won't be white hair. No, I hear you. I only needed the first bit. It's just a depletion of melanin over the years that causes it. Qualifications? I did a hairdressing course at college 17 years ago. 17 years ago. We sure the science. Are we sure the science hasn't changed since then, Tina, you know. You know what? You know how these things work. It was at college and they actually taught us the actual science. And you've been following it ever since? Not really. I'm in financial services. I just can't stand touching people's hair, so. Well, that was an odd. That was an odd course to do, then, in that case. Or did the disdain for other people's hair emerge after you'd qualified as a hairdresser? In a nutshell, yes. I was forced into it by my mum. She said, make something of your life gone. Here you go. Do a course in hairdressing. I know, go on. And how does she feel now you're a financial services consultant? I should always be disappointed. Well, I think there's a recurring theme here, Tina, and I think you need to, you know, cut the toxicity out of your life and be proud of who you are. Oh, thank you. You're very welcome. Round of applause for Tina. I don't know about you, Tina, but I wasn't expecting that to go quite off in the direction that it did. Don't even know what to say. Lovely laugh. Sam's in Sutton. Sam, question or answer? Hello, Sam. How'd you get on with your mum? Absolutely fine in the end. Oh, really? It took a while. Yeah. What? Yes, sorry, I'm just walking the dog and I'm surprised I got through. That's okay. You're here loud and clear. I mean, you shouldn't be that surprised, given that you rang zero 345-606-0973 and offered to contribute to the program. But, you know, we are where we are. What have you got for me? It's so exciting. I've got an answer. Yes. And so to the trolleys having hinges. Jeffrey, wait, wait, wait. Sorry, I'm just talking. That's all right, Jesse. Jesse, wait, wait, Jesse. Carry on, Sam. Jeffrey's a good boy. Jeffrey. Yeah, the trolleys have hinges. Because I wondered about this for years and years and years. Yes, yours. And I felt really stupid when I heard the answer. Okay, go on. It's basically so that they can slot into each other. So they have a hinge at the front and they can slot into each other and sort of be stacked in a. In a smaller space. Otherwise. Is it that simple? Otherwise you'd need to have a trolley sized space for every trolley. Whereas this way you can. In the way that you come with supermarket trolleys, because of the way they're made, you can insert them into each other. You couldn't do that with the big, flat wagony trolleys. Exactly. And I felt really stupid because. You shouldn't feel stupid, Sam. I'd wondered about it for years and years. They run a little removal company. We use them every day. I think that makes sense. I'm going to give you the round of applause. I mean, the qualifications, you use them. Therefore you've asked the questions a few times. Awesome. Thank you. No, well done. That's all right. Careful, careful, Sammy, don't do that. Otherwise Jeffrey's going to get over excited. He's in the park, so he's. Oh, he's off. He's off the lead. Is he? Yeah, he's. Aren't we all? Catching the sea. Okay, a nice name. Who's he named after? Or is it just a name you like? Jeffrey is. He just looked like a Jeffrey. Fair enough. That's fine. 1253 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. I don't know why I'm saying that. It's like a verbal tick. Now. There's no chance of getting through. Fan as I've been chocka since 10:00. Which means I should probably apologize for not talking to anybody else between ten and eleven. I'll make up for it tomorrow. Ed's in Kensington. Ed, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's speculation, really, but it's to do with the buses, trains, planes. Trains and automobiles. No, that's all right, then. That's fine. I think we're all in the realms of speculation on that one. What have you got? Yeah, well, my theory is that when planes and trains and buses were first designed, they didn't have roofs, so you were open to the elements, so you were on them rather than in them. Planes didn't. Whereas with a car. Oh, no, they didn't. They. I believe the early prototypes of cars all had roofs. Possible retractable. But I think you were in a car and you were on a plane. On a bus. On a train. So that's all. It works a lot better if we leave planes out of it, doesn't it? Although I think you're right. I think Wilbur and all the first World War planes were open to the elements. You think you've got the guy in the cockpit. He's got nothing above him. He hasn't got a roof, has he? No. He might have put a bit of glass over it sometimes. Well played. Well played. Just looking for some flaws in your theory. Because obviously, in the realms of. We can't go definitive. I've got plenty of times. 1254, mate, I've done this before. I could strike. Yeah, fair enough. I haven't, then. In. I mean, cars. I thought my early images of cars were open. Well, I'm thinking they had retractable roofs, or the motorized equivalent of the handsome carriage would have a roof, wouldn't it? Because I'm going to give you a round of applause with the caveat. Thank you. With the caveat that obviously, this is open to a steward's inquiry from someone. Of course. But I wanted to get an answer on the board before 01:00. Yeah. You've played a blind around. Great work, mate. Thank you. Thank you. Tim's in Folkestone. Tim, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. Why is the crane fly known as the daddy long legs? What's the significance of the daddy as opposed to just being called long legs? Because you could work out the long legs bit without too much help. Indeed, indeed. But the daddy. Why daddy long legs? I mean, there are female crane flies that are also known as daddy long legs. So what's the relevance of that. I like it. It's a good daddy long legs. So it sounds nice, but that's not going to be it. Yeah, okay. The most annoying creatures on the planet, I do believe, especially at this time of year. Don't be ridiculous. How can they possibly be that? Daddy? Yeah, okay, well, origins of daddy long legs, we've done that in and on, so we need answers. We're not going to. It's a bit rubbish this week. We need the essential oils answer. We need the umbrella indoors. Oh, no, it's not. We're doing fine. I don't think the umbrella indoors thing was going to get an answer. But why are essential oils called essential oils? There's an open goal there for somebody, I think I provided the answer, but our friend in Jersey was just not having it. He was one of them. He wasn't prepared to accept my brilliance and wanted somebody who is ostensibly more qualified than me to step up to the breach and pride. The answer. But if you know the dad long legs thing, then you've got about two and a half minutes to get on air and fill your boots with some juicy applause. I don't want any more stewards inquiries on the trolleys, I don't think. Or indeed on the chess. Unless you know for certain because you manufacture the trolleys. Unless you manufacture them, then I'll take it. But that is it. We're back to moving. It is coming up to 1257 and if you want to answer any of these questions, then you can. There's someone online, one. I've got no idea who. What would you like to say? Hello, Derek. Hello, James. Hello, mate, how are you? I'm not bad, thanks for you. Yeah, mustn't grumble, you know, we've all got our crosses to bear. What's on your mind? Question or answer? Yeah, it's an answer about the going in a car. Oh, yeah. A long time ago, obviously, you just had horses, so you would have been going on for transport. Going on a horse. On a horse, going on car. When the cars were made, they were all open, so you would have been going on. Yeah, that's right. When they had roofs, you were going in a car. Yeah, but buses have got roofs now and you still go on a bus. I don't know what you would have said. I'll run around at that time. I know, but that's the point in it. And I like your thinking, but it doesn't translate from your car based analysis to your bus based analysis. As smoothly as we would like, Derek does it? Well, but is there any other answer? Philosophy, mate. We haven't got time for that. Philosophy. That is borderline religion. Sheila Fogarty's here. She might want to go for the ontological angle. Form versus dynamism. Give Derek a round of applause. It's been a lovely bloke. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And finally, Oscar, who apparently is in Mobile in Texas. Oscar, what would you like to say? Oh, hi, James. So I've got an answer to your umbrella question. Carry on. So, back in ancient Egypt, umbrellas were used. You're making this up. Screens to protect. Protect sort of arrows and the nobility people from, like, parasols. It was seen as an insult by the sun God Ra. If you were to stand underneath it, either in the shade or indoors anywhere, basically. Qualifications. A history graduate. That's strong, mate. I wish I could see you, because if you're yanking my chain, I could tell because I've got, like, laser eyes for people misleading me. That's why I got Farage's number so quickly. I know, right, have we got any hosannas or anything like that? We got. No, that's fair. Round of applause, at least for Oscar. I wish. We don't have an award for the quality of the answer, do we? We've only got awards for the quality of the qualifications. Something we might look to. Oscar, I'm very proud of you, mate. Well done. Has your history degree ever come in useful before? Just at pub quizzes. There you go. It is now 1259. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten, here is Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James. James O'Brien. Now, Liverpool, the city and the city region, the area around it, Warrington, Hartlepool and Middlesbrough, have all gone into further measures. We use the word lockdown, I think, a bit too loosely about this, these things, but they've gone into further stricter measures, for sure, about mixing, social mixing, that is, between households. Now, there are exemptions, and I'm going to go through those exemptions because I think it's important that we make things as clear as we possibly can. We have a reporter in Hartlepool and one in Liverpool to talk us through the changes and what the implications of those changes are. We'll also hear from local politicians in the area as well. We'll talk about testing after two. After the former health secretary said we need much, much more testing in staffing the NHS, which I've been saying for months on your radio on global player and play LBC. Leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.