Roundabout impasse?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly etcetera, etcetera. If you haven't listened to this scintillating radio feature before, then allow me to suggest that not only are you in for a treat, but it usually comes. Or it used to come before I forgot and now I've remembered with two cast iron guarantees. The first is you will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. It might not be knowledge that you're grateful for, it might not be knowledge that serves you in any useful way, shape or form whatsoever, but you will. And you may have forgotten it by 01:10 but you will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. Guaranteed. Absolutely. Stone cold promise. Number two. You'll certainly laugh as well. Whether it will be a true bone rattling guffaw or just a polite titter, I cannot say. But I pledge that you will have a bit of a giggle or more in the next hour. Okay, five after twelve isn't time. Should we just crack on this week, rather than go through all the motions? You can work out how it works. Don't ring in until you've got a clear idea of what the rules and regulations are. Loosely speaking, the only rule is don't be boring. I know what you're thinking. Pot, kettle, black. Mary's in Bayswater. Mary, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Mary. James. My question relates to what I see when I walk around central London. I see lamp posts and sometimes even rubbish bins and the like that have the red roses and all of that. Yes, but I've seen, er, two for the queen and I'm just wondering, when Charles ascends to the throne, will they be changed or every time a lamppost has to be up, a bin is replaced or something? Are you sure they have the queen's tag on bins? Well, to be honest, I'm sure. I have seen that. I've definitely seen it on lamp posts. Post boxes are the most obvious example of what you describe and they actually provide the answer to your question. Ah, today, yes, they do. Go on. I did assume that, obviously the stamps and as you see the royal Mail bands around, I'm assuming their paint jobs will be updated to reflect Charles. A reference to Charles. But things like the lampposts that have the beautiful, they will stay the same because, I mean, post boxes provide the answer to your question. Because you can still find victorian post boxes, you can still find post boxes that are emblazoned with the crest of Queen Victoria VR. Ah, okay. So when they build new ones, they will probably say cr three, I guess. Although there is some confusion over whether Prince Charles will be King Charles. I don't want to go there. But there is an interest. Sheila Fogarty or no, she's a font of all knowledge when it comes to matters royal. But no, they won't take down all the lampposts that have got, er two on them and replace them with lampposts that have got c three, Po or cl three on them. Okay, so. But if they have to put new ones up, I guess they will have Charles's correct as a reference that these were put in place when Charles was there. Okay, great. I have wondered that. All right, brilliant. That's what we're here for. No, that's it. Fantastic opener as well, because I get the round of applause, Mary. Everyone's a winner. Oh, I'm glad I could help. I'm glad I could help as well, Keith, in your own time. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you. Is there anything older than a Victoria? I mean, where was the penny post? Rolling hill, wasn't it? Anyone know why Roland Hill is of a particular interest to me? Anybody? Roland Hill? Who invented the penny post? Anybody? Anybody? Oh, I thought you lot paid attention. 1208 is the time Rachel is in siren so, Rachel, question or answer? Hello, I've got a question. Carry on. I need to apologise profusely before I ask it, though, and I'll pay for your therapy. Why? It's. If four cars arrive at a mini roundabout simultaneously, who has right of way? This is. I don't understand how you got through. Through? I'm really, really sorry, but I saw your question last week and I made quite a big song and dance in the studio about not allowing it on, so I'm sorry. Why are you apologizing? It's not your fault. How is this. How has this been allowed to happen, Rachel? I don't know. The only rule on the program ever is that I don't like motoring questions and I usually use questions about roundabouts as an example of the kind of question that I most despise. I'm very, very, very sorry. That's all right. No, I've forgiven you. It's just P 45 is all round when the show ends. So there's four cars coming into a mini roundabout at the same time. Yes. Which you have right away, because normally you give way to ride. I mean, the only reason I'm asking because I nearly had an accident. A mini roundabout. Right. There were four or four of us. And obviously now you start inching forward and if everybody starts inching forward at the same time, it can end up in a bit of a mess because you're so close to each other. Yes. So even if you're giving way to the right. Yeah. Then the person to your right gives way to the right and it just goes on forever. And you never, ever leave the roundabout. Yeah. It's like mexican standoff. And you're all sitting there thinking, who's gonna go for who's Mister Orange? It's the end. It's the final scene of Reservoir dogs. Do you know what? I like this question. Really? Yeah. Wow. Well, now that you've explained it so well and you've been so contrite and we've successfully passed the buck back to the producer's office, I quite like this question, but if anyone else rings in with the motoring question, they're going to be banned from listening to this programme for life. All right, well, I'll carry on listening to you anyway, regardless. Well, we'll hopefully get you an answer. So, four cars, I mean, around about so many that the bonnets are almost touching. Yeah. If you move an inch forward, you're in somebody's in somebody's boot. Love it. Thank you. Well played. I can't believe you rang in two weeks running with this question. Is that because of lockdown? We'll find out. We may never know. Ten after twelve. Four cars, mini roundabout, very mini right. Bonnet's almost touching. Give way to the right, as any fool know. But the person to your right is giving way to the right and the person to her right is giving way to the right. The person to his right is giving way to the right. The person to her right is giving way to the right. Where does it end? Simon's in Boston. Not that one, the one in Lincolnshire. Question or answer, Simon? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay, so I've been home educating our kids and we were doing arithmetic, going up and down the road, and one of the questions that they put in front of me was, why on earth do we have houses numbered 13579 at one side of the road and 2468, et cetera, down the other side? Who do we appreciate? Can you just give me four or 5 seconds to see if anything pops up? If I just concentrate for a second. Three, two, one. Time. It's something to do with the post office. Well, yes, of course. I'm sure it is, but really, you can do better than that. Surely somebody can do better than that. Yes, all right. I've just. I mean, I thought if I say it's something to do with the post office, it might start some little words, some cogsworing in the back of my mind, and one of them would throw up the actual answer. So the postman and the crossing the road and doing the odds and the. I got nothing. All right. Why houses numbered odd on one. So. And even on the other. How old are the children? Six and eight, actually. Now, that's a good question. I've been trying to get through. I've been trying to get through for years. 24 and 25. One of them got married on Friday. James. But give me your answer in your own time. Let's find out for you and for your progeny. Why do we have odd and even numbers on opposites? And don't me to tell me that's not always the case. But it is usually the. I mean, what is going on there? Do you know, I think that question dates back to the earliest days of mystery air. I think it does, but I can't remember the answer. Sally's in Epsom. Sally, question or answer? Hello, James. Thanks for taking my question. When you fall asleep, do you actually stop swallowing at night? Do you stop? I mean, I swallow before falling asleep, but do I then stop? Do I swallow at all or not? Or do I wake up dribbling in the morning? Why haven't I dribbled all over my pillow? I mean, people do. Yeah. Don't they? People do. But do you? Do. Not just you. I mean, this is a question about humanity in general. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Do we swallow in our sleep? Yeah, exactly. That. That's a great question. I feel that we should know the answer to this between us, Sally, but we don't, do we swallow in? Honestly, I'm trying to think. I've always wanted to know. We must do. Because, you know, we've got all sorts of stuff going on, haven't we? About mucus coming down on. No. I don't want to be unpleasant. People might be having their lunch, but do you have a dream that you're eating or drinking? Do I have a dream? No, not really. I do. I do. I had a dream the other night. I was absolutely leathered. I hadn't had a drink for two or three days and I was absolutely slaughtered in my dream. I woke up, I was quite disappointed. Then I realized I wasn't going to have a hangover. So I thought, yeah, I'll take that as a win. But if I can't have dreamt that I was drinking tequila. It was Margarita, since you asked. Actually, I know I could taste the salt and everything, but I wouldn't have been able to drink. Dream I was drinking without swallowing. I don't know. What a great question. Do we swallow in our sleep? That's it. Thank you. Thank you. You're on. I'll find out. Mustafa is in Pinna. Mustafa, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Mustafa. The question for the roundabouts and who has rise of wave four vehicles turn up. Whoever turns up first would normally have rise of weight in the unlikely event that everyone turns up. Not that unlikely. Not that unlikely. I think you'll find it happened in Cirencester just a few short weeks ago. Apparently. Apparently. If that did happen and they all wanted to go straight ahead, then unfortunately, all of them have right of way and it just happens to happen, but one of them would be kind enough to give way. Is that right? There is nothing else to it. So, Rachel's experience. Yeah, Rachel's experience was. I mean. I mean, very, very rare, but also very, very real. And an accurate reflection of a slight loophole. An obvious. An unavoidable loophole, but a loophole nonetheless, in the highway code. It is indeed. I have to admit, in the ten years of being an instructor, I don't think I've ever come to a roundabout and everybody wants to go straight ahead. Have you ever been to siren sester? No, I haven't. No. There you go. Well, there you go. No. That might be why I conduct my next lesson this afternoon. I got yourself down to siren says to look for a mini roundabout. I could put you in touch with Rachel. She could give you a steer on it and then you could experiment. So what would you do as a driving instructor? Would you be the bloke to let the person. Would you. Because you can see them, you're so close. It's such a mini roundabout. You could gesture to them, but that could be dangerous. What would you do? We, as instructors, always teach our students in that situation to give way to the next one on the right, or. Because that's the easiest thing. Once one of them is gone, then you're clear, aren't you? Yeah, of course. And that is the point. So there was this kind of weird mexican standoff, but that is inevitable. And, I mean, Rachel's near miss of an accident notwithstanding. Ordinarily someone would do the right thing, would do the decent thing, and everything else would sort of come out in the wash. And quite a mess insurance wise as well, because, as I said, you've all got rights of weight and if none of them have given way, that would be very difficult. Wouldn't it just? And your qualifications are that you are a driving instructor with ten years experience. I'm indeed. Round of applause for Mustafa. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. What a lovely answer. It's an interesting question, but if I get another question about roundabouts, you're all fired. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 19 minutes after twelve. Mystery Hour is unraveling in a delightful fashion, as it always does. And you could be in line for a round of applause or even perhaps a Ray Liotta if you get up early enough. John is in Brighton. John, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Yeah, excellent. Go on. Right, so we have a bit of a raffle where I work down at Mervyn now. Boss gives us a question or a bit of a riddle. Yeah. We answer it and we get the said prizes. Right. So the question was all riddle. It was. We don't really do. I'm going to do it because you sound like a top ladder. We just literally said, this is the riddle. And I said, we don't do riddles. And you said, it's not a riddle. Who are you? Boris Johnson would call in. All right, go on. Right. So a farmer has 322 cows. Yes. He takes one shot and gets all the cows. How did he do it? One shot, gets all the cows. 322 cows. Takes one shot. He gets all the cows out. Where does the raffle come into it, John? That'll be tomorrow. But why did you mention the raffle when you came on? Oh, so you've literally got to solve this by tomorrow? Yeah. And you're cheating. I mean. I mean, no one's going to notice. Well, you are. This is a national radio station. You can't. I mean, it is cheating, isn't it? It's all right. No one's going to know your secret. Safe with me, Dave. Don't worry, Dave. No one will know it was you, John. I'm calling you Dave. I'm calling you Dave, John, so that no one knows it's you, John. All right, Dave. Dave. Sounds about right. All right, Dave. 322 cows. Farmer takes one shot and he got all the cows. And do you think the language is important here? Have you remembered the phraseology of the question correctly? I sort of have because I've been thinking about it working on hold. Yeah. I don't know if I'm right. Yeah. Because it might be one of those ones where if we've got anything slightly wrong semantically, then the whole riddle falls apart, even though it's not really a riddle. Dave? Yeah. I think I've got someone. I think I've got it. I think I've got it gone. The farmer took a photo today. Yeah. He took a photo. One shot. Okay. Not Dave, really? I thought you'd be dancing for joy. I just saw a flipping. Solved it for. He took a photo of the cows. One shot. Okay, fair enough. That's, um. What's the price? What's the price? Um. It will probably be alcohol or meat. Alcohol or meat. Yeah, they do think you could do a bit of both. I'd like alcohol and meat, please. What's my cup, then, if I've got left over from charity? Well, I don't. I mean, yeah, I mean, I don't want to. I don't want to pick the pockets of any needy causes. It's a photo shoot. Photo shoot for cows? Not a photo shoot for cows. It's not like cow vogue, but it's 322 cows. How does he get all of them with one shot? Answer. You're thinking of guns. I'm thinking of cameras. It's one shot. One photo. That's quite clever. Yeah. I do as well. I don't think he's that clever to that, but fair enough. I'm going to give it. He hasn't thought of it himself. Dave. Has he got it out of a book of riddles? Even though it's not a riddle? I think it's not a riddle. Well, it is a riddle. I couldn't work it out, but there we go. I'm just a removal man from Worthing. If it's right, will you let me know? I will do. I'll call you. Yeah. And then we'll talk about how much meat or alcohol you have to give to me. By way, I mean. Dave. All right. All right, Dave. Cheers. Cheers, John. Dave. Take care. Bye bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye bye. 1223 is the time. And if that hasn't delivered, guarantee number two for this week's mystery, then, frankly, I don't know what will. Michael's in Tunbridge Wells. Michael, question or answer? It's an answer. It's to do with the street numbering. It's all about future proofing it, really, because if a road is ever extended, if you've numbered it sequentially, up one side and the other, you'd have to renumber all the houses. When. When you extended the road because it didn't work, so. But if you do it odds and evens, it's very easy to continue a bit of road add on the next. Hang on. So we got up to 42 on one side and 41 on the other. If you wanted to build more road. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. Qualifications? I used to be a cartographer. I used to make maps for ordinary survey with street numbers. We talked to the councils and things. Why did you stop? Because I became a vicar. Really? You got a vocation? So you moved from. Well, I've phoned on before. I've answered some vicary questions as well. Now you've gone back to your old existence as a cartographer and also earn yourself a round of applause. Thank you very much. You're very, very welcome. Thank you. Perfect sense. Thank you. 24 after twelve is a time Gary's in tune for. Gary. Question or answer? Gary, I think you mean. Yeah, everyone's a critic. All right, Jerry, question. It's a steward inquiry. Oh, no. If it's on Dave, stroke. John. Stroke. Riddle. Stroke. Not riddle. Question. You can, frankly, you can whistle for it. It's on roundabouts. Oh, my God, that's even worse. Go on. So the previous instructor had ten years experience. I've got 17. Yeah, he was wrong. He gave you wrong information. He said, fighting somebody. Yeah. Has right of way. Yeah. Now, for starters, there's no such thing as right of way when driving is concerned, it's who has priority. Yeah, that's what. Right of way. Don't be pedantic, that's semantic. No, that's important. If he took his standards check, he'd fail his standards check. All right, give him a break. It was all just a bit of fun old Mustafa fighting talk. Yeah, but we could have accidents here, James. Yeah, you're right. We nearly did in sirences. All right, so we called it wrong. It's not called right of way, it's called number two. He said, everybody has rights away. It's complete opposite. Nobody has right away. Because you're giving way to the car on your right, I'm going to kill you. All right, so the car on the right has priority. Don't kill them. They did the right thing. Go on, then. The car on the right has priority. Yeah. The car on their right has priority and the car on their right. So nobody has. But this is philosophy now, because everybody has priority and nobody has priority. You can't say everybody has priority, then you're all going to drive on together if you all think you have priority. Yeah, but then nobody has priority. Nobody's ever going to move. They are. You wait for a moment and see what the other people want to do. So he was right in that respect. But he said everybody has rights away. It's the opposite. A lot of people listening to this really wonder. Right, stay there. Don't go anywhere. Jerry Roberts in Harlow. Robert, I believe you may have rung in to query this particular question as well. Have double stewards inquiry. What's going on? Did you hear? Did you hear what? Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, lads. Did you hear what Jerry says? Calm it down, lads. Let's calm it down. Did you hear what Jerry said? Yes, I did. Has that calmed your conniptions in any way, shape or form? No, he's made me fuming. Oh, Lord above. Jerry, Jerry. Now you know what Mustafa feels like. Carry on, Robert. Right, who's got right away on the roundabout is when you. It's called priority. Well, you know what I mean. Jerry is very, very adamant on this one subject, so it's called priority. Now, carry on, Robert. But the person who's got priority on the roundabout. Yeah. You look at the road markings on each of the four entrances to the roundabout. Yeah. Three of them will be solid lines, solid white lines. A double dash. Yeah, yeah, yeah. One of them will have a double dash. Right. So instead of it being one short line and then a short line, in a short line, there'll be two single ones there instead of the double. Right. Whoever's got the two singles has got priority away, which normally runs with the, like the main road that's running that way. Hang on, there might be one flight. Hang on. I'm just going to go back to Gerry. I like this, but I can think of what. Lads, lads. All right, let's keep it friendly. Jerry, this. This must be driving you mad, James, because it's driving related. Yes. Let's say it's a mini roundabout. It is, it is. It is a mini roundabout. The question was specifically about a mini roundabout. They all have the same mark. That's what I thought. No, they don't. No, they don't. Yeah. Really? Mini roundabouts. Robert. What? I think this is because I downloaded the NHS, apparently. And James, one more thing. If you do agree with me, please don't give me a round of applause because I owe you one. Well, I like that. That's a nice. I mean, just when things couldn't get any more surreal, Gerry's just throwing that into the mix. So do Robert. Are you sure your markings based answer applies to mini roundabouts. Yes. To mini roundabouts. It is so mini roundabouts. I know. And, you know, people wondered why I didn't take my. You do what? You train lorry drivers? Yes. And I've just passed one. I'm in a cab at the moment training one of the gentlemen up. That's. What's his name? I don't really want to tell you. Why not? All right. Just. All right, all right. I'm just trying to, you know, break the ice a bit. Is he good, Michael? Is he gonna. Is he gonna pass? He ain't bribed me of anything yet. Put it like that. Is he gonna pass or is he not gonna pass? Because I'll tell you what, if he's not. Because if he's not gonna pass, I'll be on the phone to whoever it is and Sharpie saying, I can't believe it. I was doing my test, my HGV test, and he phoned up some radio, stat. He phoned up some geezer on the radio. Every mini roundabout you go to, one of the markings will be different to the other three. All right, well, Jerry, don't give me a round. I'm not going to give you a round of applause, Jerry, I'm not going to give you a round of applause. I've been waiting five years to give you that back. Well, thank you. I put it in my back pocket. I'm going to give it to Robert, though. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. But you've got to share it with Michael. Well, okay, I will. Mustafa gets his as well. People wonder why I don't like questions about roundabouts. Hey, hey, hey. John's been in touch. He says, my boss said I cheated, but James was right, so my winnings have gone to mind. Charity in Worthing and that is provided the name of the company as well. It's at P and H. Removal's in worthy. So, great work, lads and lasses, on doing that weekly raffle for the charity. And bad luck John, who thought he was going to get his hands on some nice free meat stroke or alcohol, but it's all been robbed because of don't ring anymore. So here we go. Yeah, funny. This producer thinks she's been hilarious putting through the roundabout question. Guess what? She's now written on my screen in enormous letters. Please, please tell them, no more questions, no more driving answers. No more roundabout based. Yeah, funny, innit? It's almost like I actually know what I'm doing. It's 12:30 Thomas Watts is here now with the headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. And, yeah, my. My inbox is now full of pictures of many roundabouts. There goes my twitter for the rest of the day. Okay, question. Still in need of answers. Do we swallow in our sleep? That's the only one left, actually. And no, I've done the lamppost one. I covered that. You even gave me a round of applause. Chris is in Kingsclare in Hampshire. Chris, question or answer? Hello. Hello, James. Hello, Chris. Hello. Hello. Sorry about that. I was just talking to my partner. That's all right. Is everything. No, I don't want to interrupt. Is everything all right? No, she just thought I was talking randomly to somebody in the house. Well, you can't. You kind of are, really. Although she's not. She's not encountered a telephone before. Chris, it's come as a big surprise to us. She just heard me talking to your producer and just came down and said, who the hell are you talking to? Go on, then, Chris. So the question is, in the Olympic flag, what do the colors mean or represent? Oh, the different coloured rings. Yeah. How many rings are there? Five, I think. Is it going to be continents, then? Maybe. Do you think consonants. Consonants mean as in letters or. No. Continence. Continence. You know, it's funny because I just said that and as I was talking, my partner came down. That's when you just said. Why are you asking that question? Just confidence, you dummy. So, you. Mystery. You could have just shouted upstairs then, really? I could have done. But, you know, it's not the same as talking to Mister O'Brien. Grant you that. But I don't know that. If I were you, mate, I'd stop digging at this point in proceedings. I think that's the. All right, we'll find out for you. And if. If it is continence, then. What's your partner's name? If she's prepared to share it in public in such circumstances. Her name is Verena. Verena. If so, if there's a round of applause going, it's going to Verena. All right. She was the first one to the post, I guess, from my stupidity. No, it's not stupid. That's charming. A nice little vignette of your domestic harmony there as well, Chris. Mind how you go. 1236 is the time. So, the Olympic rings, what do the colours represent? And do we swallow in our sleep? Sue is in Twickenham. Sue, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on to the swallowing question. Oh, yes. So, yes, we do swallow at night. On average, adults swallow 2000 times a day per 24 hours. Gosh, yes. The majority of which happen during the day, with obviously a concentration around eating and drinking. But we swallow consistently throughout the day, but much less at night. But we do still swallow three to six times an hour. But it's very variable on the individual because you have to keep the tissues of the mouth moist, you have to deal with secretions. So, yes, we do swallow at night, but the majority during the day, because otherwise we'd wake up coughing or choking all the time, wouldn't we? Yes, you would. And your tongue would be stuck to the roof of your mouth because of the lubrication issue. Yes. If you didn't swallow, it would trick. Well, you're quite right. It would trickle down and you would cough. It would go down into your lungs and you would choke or cough. So from a safety point of view, but also a comfort point of view, yes, we swallow at night. Qualifications? I think. I know. I'm a feeding specialist. I'm a speech and language therapist, but I'm a feeding specialist. Very strong answer. Close to Rayleigh, to territory, but not quite. Bless you. Not quite close enough. So, round of applause for sue. Lovely stuff. I like that because I kind of thought we all knew the answer, didn't we? But you need someone like sue to come on. That's why qualifications sometimes can be really, really relevant. Other times, it might be just something that you saw on the telly last night, but on that one, I felt that we needed somebody who really knew what they were talking about. William Zimperley. William, question or answer? Got an answer for the Olympic question. Carry on, William. That was quick. Well, the five rings are the five continents of the earth. Africa, the Americas, Oceania, Asia and Europe. And the colors red, yellow, black, green, blue, one of those colors will be in every single flag in the world, and they're all interjoined. So it's all the Olympics. Unite the world. That's lovely, isn't it? Well, it is, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Really nice qualifications. I collect autographs from Olympic champions. I'm a bit obsessed with the Olympics. You collect autographs from Olympic champions? Well, I think the two best things you can do in this, I think this kind of January are to become an Olympic champion and to get knighted and someone like Sir Chris Hoy and Dame Kelly Holman, Sir Brady Wiggins, they're like my heroes, you know, because they've gone double bubble. They've. They've done the astonishing sporting achievement and then they've got the kind of the recognition. They've all won BBC sports personality three years. So they've got the hat trick, you know. Yeah, I know. I like it a lot. What's your rarest. That's what life is about, isn't it? Trying to achieve something with you, James. And those three have certainly achieved something with their life, isn't they? Well, I don't. Oddly, I don't know that I do agree with the last bit on this. I think that magnificent achievements like the ones you describe are magnificent achievements, but for me, the person quietly getting on with it and raising a happy family and doing all the things that don't demand public approval and celebration, I think we actually undervalue. But we've gone off on a slightly unexpected. James. William, while I'm on you, can I ask my question? I didn't get through with my question. No, sorry. Okay. I mean, you've cast me in the role of the villain. Now, not only did you ride roughshod off over my rather gentle philosophical support for the life lived quietly, but then you sort of tried to break all the Olympics. You're an Olympics fan. You know what happens if we allow one athlete to break the rules, William? We end up with another Ben Johnson situation. Okay, I'm sorry, my mistake. I desperately need to know. Well, then you'll have to ring in next week. Okay. What is your rarest Olympic autograph? I don't know. Michael felt it's probably my biggest catch of all of them because he's the greatest olympian of all time. Yeah, but in terms of the value of. At least Gary got my pun a few moments ago. Nobody else did, apparently. But in terms of value and rarity, which is the most. The biggest one you've got, do you think? No, I don't know. I can't think. I'm chasing after Michael Jordan's all the time. I'm going to America this year to see if I can get it. That's the one biggie that I really want, because he's an Olympic champion and he's, you know, he's the greatest bass player of all time. But I'll just keep trying. Yeah. Good luck. I mean, hard to catch Michael Jordan at the best of times. Give William a round of applause, but you have to share it with Verena, Chris's partner. It's the continence. And now I feel bad, but you can't ask a question, however nice you may seem on the radio, you can't ask a question once you've provided an answer. David's in Derbyshire. David, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. Right. I've been helping my daughter with her math homework recently and here we go. Of course, there's 90 degrees in a right angle. 360 degrees in a circle. Yeah. Why isn't there a thousand degrees in a circle? Why can't it be metricated? Would that make life easier for all of us? Would it actually work with sines, cosines, intelligence? I've just been thinking about that. I'd only thought about it this morning, more or less. I was listening to the show. Fair enough. Where does PI. Where does PI fit into this? I don't know. Exactly. And that's. That's the issue. Would it work with hundreds and thousands? Would it work with Metropolitan? Or is it specifically geared to the number 90 or the number 360? So why. Yeah, I mean, there must be a 360. Seems a fairly random number to have settled on, doesn't it? A little bit. A little bit degrees in a circle. I also feel, David, that, as you know, fine, upstanding fathers, we should both know this. I'm a little embarrassed that. I'm a little embarrassed that neither of us do. Yeah. I suppose it's almost like the imperial system, isn't it? It's always been that way. Reluctant to change. But maybe we should change. Maybe. No, we're not going to change. We're not going to stop, we're not going to. I mean, flip it. Act. David, we're not going to start changing the nature of geometry at this stage proceedings. It goes back way beyond the imperial measurement system. You're going all the way back to the ancients, aren't you? So. So what is that? I mean, in a nutshell, what is the question? Why. Why do we. Can geometry be metricated? I mean, it can theoretically be metricated. I imagine it can just split a circle into 100 units rather than 360, wouldn't you? And then quarter would be 25 degrees. That's what I mean about needing a. All right, can. Can it be metricated and. Or. Why is it 360? It'd be something to. I don't know. Yeah, I like it. I find out Ben's in Chippenham. Ben, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So sometimes when someone tells a joke, we like to punctuate it with a. On the drums. Yeah. Where does that start? What do we do then? I know this. This is like end of pier type entertainment. So you'd have. Or a working men's club type scenario where the turn would do a bit of comedy, but also maybe do a song. So the drummer would be on the stage with the club singer. The club singer would finish the song and then, you know, do a couple of jokes. And after doing one of the jokes, the drummer would go, but when. When. Who was the first person to do it? Oh, that would be good. That would be what I asked. Well, I mean, you're going to struggle to get that level of answer. I think you are. But I mean. All right, the origin of Badum Tisch, you mean? Yeah, yeah. Okay. I mean, I think I've given you the origin, but if anyone can take it further back, then I will. In the words of one of the great remaining artistes who could carry a song, do a little bit of tap and deliver some quality gags. In the words of the great Les Dennis, I'll give you the money myself. Jess is in Worcester. Jess, question or answer? Question, please carry on. When I'm having. When I've had a bath or if I've done the dishes, there's lots of bubbles in the sink or the bath afterwards. And if I want to clear the bubbles, if I put more hot water on them, the bubbles tend to increase, but if I put cold water on them, they tend to disappear and just go down the plug hole. So I'm just wondering, is there, is there something in the hot water to increase the bubbles? So you. So you're trying to clear away the bubbles. If you use hot water, it gets more bubbly. Yes, that's it. And you want to know why. Yeah. Or whether or not you're imagining the whole thing. No, I'm definitely not. No, it happens. All right. I've not. I've never noticed that before. I always thought might be the opposite. I always thought when you've got a really hot bath, maybe the bubbles pop quicker than they do with a cold bath, but. But when you've. When you've emptied the bath and you've still got all the bubbles in the bath, if I put more hot water on that, it doesn't get the bubbles down the plug hole as fast as just putting a load of cold water on it. No, I like it. I never. I've never clocked that before. I think because I spend quite a lot of time in the bath, Jess. So by the time I get out, there aren't any bubbles left. I say, I don't do much washing up anymore, either. I do a little bit, but most of the time you just stick it in the machine don't you? Oh, no. See, I'm the washer upper in my house, so I spend a lot of time looking at bubbles. I don't know what to say to that, Jess. Nor me. I've got to hopefully get an answer for you. 1246 is the time. Why does hot water dissipate bubbles more effectively than cold water? What's the origin of ba dum in the context of comedy? And could we metricate geometry, as in, instead of 360 degrees in a circle, could there be 100? Is there a reason why it's 360? 1246 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's ten to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We have three questions in need of answers. We may have time to squeeze in a couple more. I hope we do metricated circles. Why can't we have metrics? Circles, metric geometry with, you know, units of ten and 100 rather than 360 and 90. Why does hot water dissipate bubbles more effectively than cold water? And the origins of the bedum tisch. Little mini drum roll when someone does a joke. I know where it happens and where it happens most commonly, but does anyone know when it happened? For the first music hall, probably. Does anyone actually know or want to take a fair punt at pretending that they know? Gary's in Lincoln. Gary, question or answer? Oh, it's an answer, James. Carry on. Gary. Hi. Sorry, I'm very nervous. Long time. Listen, it's only me. It's only mystery. I don't think anyone's ever been monstered during mystery hour, so you should be golden. You'd be laughing. Nearly there. Carry on. It's about the number of degrees in a circle. Oh, yes, it tends to be 360, because that's what the Aztecs believed were the number of days within a year. So obviously, from their observations, they studied where the position of a star was at a certain point in time, and then when they measured that approximately a year later, they thought that was 360, which isn't a bad guess. Yeah, and that's why it's 360 degrees in a circle plus 360 divides by so many numbers. It's not really that funny. No, I mean, so it is convention, then. We could. If the world had evolved differently, then it could have been 100. It could have been, yeah, but we inherited it from. Are you sure it was the Aztecs, not the Babylonians? It could be the Babylonians. It was very ancient people. Anyway, that'll do. I like your style, Gary. I like your style. That's not a bridge you're going to die on, is it? Yeah. Aztecs, Babylonians. As long as they were ancient, we're all good. So wherever the roots of modern geometry were first sprouted is where the number. But the belief that there were 360 days in a year, I'm told by a pal of mine who, frankly, should have better things to do than listen to this, that it has something to do with counting on fingers as well. So the sixes, it could be the divisibility of 360 by so many numbers and. But you've got. You can use your one hand for units one to five and then the other hand for units of five. Oh, maybe, yes. So that works as well. Qualifications? I'm a physics and astrophysics graduate and I'm currently working as a radiotherapy physicist at Lincoln. Fantastic, mate. Well, thanks for everything you do. You got a round of applause. And in answer to the original question, yes, they could be metricated, but it would probably involve a little bit too much paperwork. Exactly. Can I do a quick shout out? Yeah, go on. Can I do a quick shout out to a colleague of mine, Philip Bartle, who listens every week but works in a different office? I love that. A bit of mystery out. Mystery matery going on. Round of applause for Gary. Lovely stuff. Thank you. And I'll have to say no to the next person who asks to do a shout out, because otherwise we'll be inundated. Badoom tish. Yeah. Do you want to hear the sound effect? We've come up with a sound effect. This is a desperate attempt by my colleagues to absolve themselves of the epic amounts of blame that are coming their way for putting through the roundabout question. Have you got it? Thank you. I quite like that. It sounds a little bit rubbish. Is that deliberate? So, once again. Yeah. John's in. Gold is green. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the reason why the hot water tends to increase bubbles and cold water tends to decrease bubbles in a bath. Carry on. It's to do with pressure. Hot water is a high temperature, therefore it's less pressure, therefore the bubbles can survive and increase longer. Oh, qualifications. I've got a master's in material science. Yeah. I mean, you get around. I got a feeling, and I hope you won't take this the wrong way, that I'm not going to need my badoon tish sound effect in the course of this conversation. John, meaning this is quite a serious exchange. It's quite an earnest. So you've come onto one of the most frivolous mystery hours in a long time, and there we go. And you've brought an air of gravitas and authority. You just asked me the reason and it's just because hot water is under less pressure than cold, cold water. No, I know. I'm glad that we found your cheeky and mischievous side now, after that gentle probing, but at the time I felt that you were. I thought you were. I didn't want to give you. I didn't want to give you a whole essay. No, I know, I know, but you sounded very serious and it's been one of the silliest mystery hours in a long time, and I was just a bit surprised to get on. That's all cleared out now. No, I know. Well, you got through it. It's a brilliant answer and I love the giggles that you just provided in the background have completely undermined my original accusation of undue gravitas or gravitousness. No, I'm not that serious. I know you're not. I have got the masters. There you go. Now you've got a round of applause, which is worth almost as much. Thank you, John. Take care. I now want to say something funny so that Keith can do the sound effect, but I can't. I've been particularly hilarious for the last 56 minutes and I got nothing. I've got nothing left in my locker. But we do need the answer, so where does it come from? And I don't think you're going to be able to improve on my answer. But the fellow that asked the question was gloriously unimpressed with my answer, which is, you know, that's a cross that we all have to bear. When was the ba doom tsh. Done first? And you can't say, I'm sorry, Keith. Hang on. Why was the not. Why sorry, when was the done first? And you can't say music halls or comedy clubs or work, you've got to say, oh, it was in 1764 at the Chiswick playhouse. James. Except you can't say that because I just made that up, which means it couldn't possibly be the answer. Charlie's in Lambeth. Charlie. Question or answer? Answer on the angle. Question. A bit of a follow up. Oh, no. Is it a stewards inquiry or is it an embellishment of the original answer? It's an embellishment of the original answer. Oh, that's all right, then. That's all right, then. Carry on. Yeah, last call. Absolutely correct. But a bit of extra information is two other systems for measuring angle. Radians and gradients. Yes, Radians. There would be two PI rads in a circle, 360 degrees. There's also the gradient which has 100 gradients in a right angle. So that would be approximately your metric system that you're after. Well, I never. Radians are very useful when doing mathematics with complex numbers or imaginary numbers. People may have heard of gradients I've never used in my life, but I understand that they're often used for surveyors. Are they like the betamax of measurements or. I mean, they could have been more popular, but the. But the old sumerian or babylonian or aztec system got in there first. I don't want to upset any surveyors. That could well be the case. All right. And are you sure? But we're not just going around in circles. Oh, what? You got it in. Well done. Thank you. Thank you very much. Round of applause for Charlie. Well, the only question we haven't successfully answered is the question of where does the come from? Do we know Chris is in Brighton? Chris, question or answer? Carry on to the boomfish. Yes. Start. You got it right. You said 1760. It started in pantomime when they used the drummers to accompany the actors on stage with pratpools and sound effects. So what, commedia dell'arte or later than that. Yeah, yeah. It would go back to that. We stole it from comedian art into a thing called hallucinate. That's right. So it would be, what, so 1670s? Yeah. So roughly, times wise. So when we adopted the sort of piero Harlequin type drama, which you can see in Shakespeare a lot, actually, as I'm sure you. Absolutely, yeah. As you know, I think there'd been. People have written about it then. That would be where. Because you had the minstrels on the stage and they'd do the drum to deliver the punchline, to deliver the gag. Yeah. And to do other sound effects. Well, there you go. What other sound effects did they do? Sheila's here, so hurry up. Falling over pratfalls. Yeah. Keith, you got your work cut out for the rest of this week. Give Chris a round of applause, actually, if you would. No, you're very welcome. I'm not playing the rocky theme now. That's your punishment. We're never playing it again for putting through that roundabout joke. Time now for Sheila Fogarty. Hello. Thank you, James. A couple of days ago on the program, I spoke to Jeremy Hunt, former health secretary, now chair of the Commons Health and Social Care select committee. If I can get it right, it'd be helpful description wrong with the name he was talking about. The costs that many people are, especially people paying for dementia care are facing. I will speak to a man, a young man, young father, whose wife sadly has early onset dementia and is in a very bad way. And his story of their efforts to get help to pay the near 1300 pounds a week costs for her care should make you sit up and notice because this is a there but for the grace of God go I moment. Tune in on your radio on global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.