Why do scabs itch?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery Hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. Dallas. A quick shout out to Bea, who's just bought the mystery Hour board game. Really looking forward to playing it with my son over the weekend. Well, unfortunately, B, none of the questions that pop up today will be. Well, they might actually. They sometimes come around again. Who knows? Let's wait and see. And remember that my favourite contribution of the day, my favourite contribution of the hour, could put you in Bea's happy position without actually having to pay a free Mister outboard game for my favourite contributor. Either a questioner or an answerer. Everyone. It's open to everybody. It's an equal opportunity competition. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK dot. If you're not sure what I'm talking about, if this is the first time you've stumbled across this program, or perhaps this feature, then I'm going to somewhat immodestly suggest that you're in for a bit of a treat. At least we think so, don't we? We rather like this. It's. There's no quite a lot of you sending me a message about Zoe Gardner as well, who was on Newsnight last night. You know, great minds. I had that ready to play to you as well. But the Cooper clip was so long, I just didn't have time for the Zoe Gardner clip from Newsnight. But she was absolutely superb. I think I've retweeted it. If I haven't, you should be able to find it. Just really nailing exactly what the government is doing with the asylum seekers and refugees and how disgusting, how despicable it is utterly transparent, utterly gross. But we do not concern ourselves with such matters for an hour of a week. And that hour is now upon us. If you've got a question that needs an answer, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And if you have an answer to the question that someone else has asked, then zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. There's not really any rules. We try to avoid repetition and you're not allowed to look anything up. But apart from that, all human life is here. Six minutes after twelve is the time Alan is in Liverpool. Alan, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Alan. It's not going to win the board game, because it's not that good a question, but it's been gnawing at me for ages. What was the first ever film to have a recognizable soundtrack where you could go out and you could buy the. Well, what would have been back then? The LP or the singles, as opposed to just incidental music? I think. I can't think of one earlier. I think it's the graduate with Dustin Hoffman and Anne Bancroft in 67. I can't think of an earlier one that had an actual soundtrack with songs. What about. I mean, that's 67. Was it 1967? Yeah. I'm surely Simon and Garfunkel. No, I know that. I'm just surely neo Morricone, but Maurice Jarr, Miss Jean Michel Jar's dad, wasn't he composing film music before that? Yeah, but that was incidental music. I meant we can go out and. No, but you would buy the album. It's not incidental music. It's written specifically for that film. No, I'm talking about songs. Oh, I see. You're talking about a film that contained songs that you could then go out and buy us out. So not incidental through me. Songs that go through the film. So I'm not looking at James Bond, who have just a theme tune or a theme song and that's it. But, I mean, different song, like misses Robinson. Yeah, yeah. Hazy shade of winter, April comes, she will. All those. That's a beautiful album, isn't it? It's an absolutely seminal album. It's a superb film as well. So pop songs, really, that were also a movie soundtrack. Was that the first? I recorded the film for my 17 year old stepdaughter to watch because I think she'd love it. Yeah, it is an absolute cracker. And the music is. I mean, it utterly elevates it. Thank you, mate. I like that question a lot. It's got to be songs, whether they were written. Well, hang on. What a. What about musicals, though, Alan? Well, no, they were probably originally musicals anyway. Yeah, but that's a film album you can go out and buy. Yeah, but I didn't. I said feature films. I didn't say feature musical. Feature films come off. I mean, we're narrowing it down now. I mean, you've got a film of, like, I don't know, Greece. That was a bit later than 67, wasn't it? But there must be something before that. I'm not looking at seven brides for seven brothers or anything like that. No. So the characters aren't singing the song, the characters aren't singing. That's the cruise. There we go. No, that's the distinction. The characters aren't singing the songs. Although as a kid, I think I used to get Dustin Hoffman mixed up with Paul Simon a bit, actually, because of that musical crossover in that film. Alan, thank you. Glenn's in Brentwood. Glenn, question or answer? It's a question. James, carry on. Good morning. Good morning. Good afternoon. Being made redundant, like most people were during COVID I decided to set up my own company, which now involves a considerable amount of driving, as I did before. Okay, my question is, why are there a considerable amount of potholes on country roads? Less on a roads, but even considerably less than motorways? You know, I used to have a rule about motoring questions, but I've got older over the years and I don't mind them anymore and I'm fascinated by potholes. I thought you were going to tell me that you'd set up a business fixing potholes. Because I have this theory someone's going to make a fortune now, Glenn, because I think that someone should look into a way of making a sort of galvanized rubber that you just pour into a pothole and it fills every little nook and cranny and create. I think that I get very obsessive about potholes. I think they're very strange, but I think the answer might be quite obvious. Fix them more. The busier the road, the more important it is to fix the pothole. Possibly. When do they do that? Keith is gesticulating at me, which means? Means I might have got it wrong. What do you mean? Speed. Yeah. So they've got to fix it because you're going so fast on the motorway. Yeah. So that's what I said. They fix them a lot more quickly and the reason why they fix them a lot more quickly is because you're driving a lot faster on the roads, the relevant roads. You hit a pothole at 80 miles an hour, you're going to take off. But when will they fix them, though? At nighttime when people aren't driving so much? Yeah. I mean, that's why I'm not going to give myself or Keith a round of applause. We will have to get an answer from someone who's actually involved in fixing them. But if that's not the answer, Glenn, I'll give you the money myself. I appreciate that. Thank you, mate. Ten minutes after twelve. I hope the new job's going well. James is in Malaga. James, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, James. I'm a user of a white cane I'm registered blind, but I've always wanted to know why. And who decided they were white? Does. Does white. For visually impaired people, does white register more effectively than other colors? No, I don't think so. I mean, not for you, not to me, or maybe it does for everybody else. I have some vision. Not a great deal. I mean, I qualified for a white stick, so I've never understood. Well, I just wanted to know why. I presume it is. Again, the slightly obvious reason. Is that. So that we know it's not a walking stick. Yes, possibly. But I have had it in the past where people have assumed I was with one of those, like, what you call those things that people go walking with. You know, the scandinavian walking or something? No, the scandinavian walking. Yeah. No, but that's. I mean, you're being a bit of a pedant here, James. You're quibbling a bit. I think the obvious answer is that if you're coming towards me with your white stick, I'm going to react very differently from how I would. I'm going to behave very differently from how I would if you were coming towards me with just a wooden stick. Okay. But globally. So it must be that. I'm currently calling you from Malaga. I saw matter where I am in the world, everyone knows it's a white stick, a white cane, and I've got a visual impairment. So somewhere along the line, surely someone. Yeah, that's a different question. So that's. Where did it start? When did it start? Is what we want to know, perhaps. When? When? Well, who? Yeah, so, yeah, yeah, you're on. I like it. I like it a lot. Oh, lovely. Thank you very much. Thank you, James. We shall try and get you an answer. Why? Why the white stick? And your answer can encompass then, both bits of the question, can't it? Is as in, when did it start? And presumably we're right about why it is prevalent is because we will react differently. Thank you, James. Nicola's in Uxbridge. Nicola, question or answer? It's a question. James. Hi, good afternoon. Hello. What is it? Hi. Hello. I have a question from my four year old daughter. We were playing pirates the other day, and she's rampaging around, shivering me timbers ing, and we wondered where that phrase started shivering with timbers. And I did a sort of mystery hour kind of thing of how well, obviously, you know, it's because, you know, it's sort of like quaking in my bones, you know, shaking my bones. And then I thought, hang on. No, because it's the pirates who are shouting Shivami timbers. Why would the pirates be saying that they're scared? Because it's not about them. It's not about them. Well, I mean, when would a pirate be scared? It's not a trick question. It's not a trick. Yeah, you do. When would it. When. What is a pirate on? Usually. Yeah. And what would be the scariest thing that could happen when you're on a boat? Many things, I guess. Well, that's true, but if I rule out attacks by other boats, what's. What's the scariest thing? Come on, what do the. What happens in the films? What happens if the boat starts sinking? It's a storm. A storm. And the ship. The ship is getting battered by waves and weather. What happens to the timbers? Okay. Yeah, they start shivering. They start shaking. You don't sound convinced. Makes. That makes a lot of sense. So the timbers start shaking and the pirates get scared. So it means both literally shivering my timbers and I'm scared because my timbers are shivering. And why do they shout it? Don't want to draw attention to the fact that they're scared. That's a different question entirely, Nicola. No, it's not. Yes, it is. You see, I've given you the etymology, I've given you the origin of the. Of the phrase shiver me timbers. Also, they're not, you know, they're not superpowers, they're not superheroes. They get scared. I mean, I can't force you to accept my answer, Nicola, but I'm quite hurt. I will try to explain this to my four year old when she gets home from school. But it's, it's, it's, it's not fear necessarily, either. It could just be shock or surprise. Shiver me timbers. You know, the timber timbers are shivering, so I'm sure your four year old will understand, but I'm not going to take the round of applause in case someone else comes with a better answer. As if that's ever going to happen. Thank you, Nicola. I should have asked the other question. She asked me about rockets. Well, there's always next week. 1215 is the time. I like that question. I like the answer. I always get confused when people seem enthusiastic about my answers. I go to 1215. James O'Brien Alexa, send a comment to LBC. It's caused a lot of problems, this one on the text and tweets, which I normally ignore during mystery hour, but I use them as a sort of thermometer to take the temperature of a certain question. It's Alan's question about the first film soundtrack. I need to be very specific on this. It's a film that contains songs not sung by anyone in the film. Background music of songs that you could then go out and buy as a soundtrack. What was the first one? So it can't be the wizard of Oz, can it? Because they sing songs. In the wizard of Oz, the characters sing the songs. Someone sent me a tweet and it said, westfield story. And I thought, what's that about Westfield? So obviously it was predictive test. You were trying to say west side Story, which, again, is a musical. So the characters. So it's not that you can't. It's not. So to clarify that, that's the point. Westfield story would be a rubbish musical, wouldn't it? Or not necessarily. It could be one of those modernist sort of experimental efforts. So that's what we are looking for. Why are there so few potholes on motorways? I kind of know. At least I think I know it's kind of obvious, but I'd like it to have expert qualifications, that one. Why are white sticks used by visually impaired people? And we want to know when it started from. And why do pirates say timbers? Which I've answered very effectively, but Nicola, I felt, was quite, quite inappropriately ungrateful for my answer. James is in it. James, question or answer? Answer, please carry on. It's to do with the pothole question. Excellent. So you were pretty bang on the money, to be fair. The classification is the volume of traffic that that particular road takes. You will invest more money and more effort into maintaining that to a better condition than other roads. Yes, but the speed doesn't really have anything to do with it. That was Keith. That bit was Keith. Well, Keith was wrong. Wow. Welcome to my world. Welcome to my world, James. So that's it. The busier the road, the more effort, though. And when do they do it on a motorway, for example, when will the pothole get. Dudes move in? They'll generally do it overnight, when it's quieter. Yeah, that's what I thought. Qualifications? Highway maintenance engineer. So you do it? Do you. Do you actually do it? I don't. I design the repairs. I don't actually physically do them. Get you, mate. Fancy pants. Is there. Is there a. Is there a fortune to be made for someone coming up with a really easy, simple way to repair potholes? To be honest, what you described is not really practicable. It's what they said. That's what they said to Thomas Edison, mate. Well, yeah. And Bill Gates. They said that to steve jobs. Once. James, what you described is not really feasible. You've got like a rubbery gravel. Rubbery gravel is what you want and you pour it into the hole and it seeps into all that and it creates a perfectly tight seal. That's what you. I just feel you're slightly reinventing the wheel somewhat. Is that what you do already? Generally, yeah. How much rubber, though, is there? Well, I don't know that. No, it's. The rubber is the secret. You melted the rubber to get the rubbery gravel and that just creates a tighter seal. Yes. Anyway, you've got a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. You can have that one for nothing, James. You can take it to your design, your laboratory and see rubbery gravel. That's what. You probably need to come up with a fancier name. John's in Bristol. John, question or answer? Hello, James. Been a while, mate. How are you, John? I'm all right, mate. And you? Yeah. Mustn't grumble, mustn't grumble. On we go. Yeah, I got a question for you. Here we are. Here we go. Going back through time, you had court jesters and jokers and coming up to date, you've got comedians. That's correct. What is the oldest recorded joke? There must be a joke scribbled on an old wall. That's what it will be. Would it be like hieroglyphics? Possibly. Possibly. Or it might be in an old manuscript or something. No, it's gonna be. It's gonna predate manuscripts, I would have thought. But you don't know. I mean, could you do a joke? You could do a cartoon, couldn't you? Oh, I must say thank you to Tony husband, the cartoonist, who sent me a lovely little package the other day after we were talking about some of his work on air. So you could do a cartoon? Yeah, you could, I suppose, but it's the older one, actually. Like a written joke, you know, come back through time, I mean. Or like a one liner. Yeah, all right. You're right. I mean, there's loads of one liners in there. I mean, I can think of one straight away. You know what? Tree never grows. Go on. A lavatory. Oh, very good. Is this what you rang in for? Really? Are you done? That thing again where you come on with a question and it's really just. It's really just a. It's a. It's a cape under which you're going to smuggle in your own attempts at entertaining my listeners. Oh, dear. I shall find out. Well, I shall try to find out. For you, John. What's the words? Good to hear your voice, mate. Look, you hear my voice all the time, don't you, you silly sister? Well, I do, but even so, you know, it's good to hear your voice, John. It's good to hear your. I keep cursing you every time I lose on the board game. Never mind. Practice makes perfect. Practice makes perfect. You should have your own questions in there, surely by now. 24 minutes after twelve, the world's oldest joke. Please. Ian's in Wolverhampton. Question or answer, Ian. Is there a question? James, carry on. Right. What it is, is a few weeks ago, I was thirsty, so I went to my fridge, got a can of pop out the fridge and drank it. Yeah. And I got brain freeze. Oh, it's horrible, isn't it? It's absolutely horrible. Is it medically bad for you? Yes, good question. It's a good question. It hurts. It flipping hurts. So you presume it's doing something bad, don't you? Yeah. If I've got a headache or migraine, I have to say pills, and it is desert. But is it medically, is it doing your harm? Is it brain freezer? You got it from a can of pop. That's quite rare. I'd have thought it was ice cold. Well, clearly. I mean, they're just really. What have you got? Is your fridge on high or do you just like it like that? No, I like drinking cod puppy because it'd be a. Be a nice lolly for me. Normally, if I get a bit of brain freeze, it would be a. Be a big assume or something like that. Not an actual drink. I'd rarely get it from a drink, but I don't get it from ice cream or anything. I'll normally get it from pop. Really? Yeah. Oh, you live and learn. All right, you're on. I'll find out. Is brain freeze medically bad for you? 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Tony's in Winchmore Hill. Tony, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. I've got an. Pirates. Is it pirates? Pirates. Carry on. 18th century English. To shiver is to rip something apart, to rend it asunder. Oh, so it's a bit like. I think while I was waiting for you, I thought it's a bit like, um. Somebody said, well, knock me down with a feather. So splits. Yeah. So not. Yeah. Knock me apart with shock. So. So it's more about shock than. Than fear, isn't it? I think so, yeah. It's got nothing to do with fear, actually. It's much later that shiver was meant for that, you know, the involuntary skid movement. Okay, qualifications? Academic. English. Academic. Because that. Well, I mean, that's a very valid qualification. But quite a lot of pirate stuff comes from fiction, doesn't it? I mean, you know, it's the fella who portrayed long John Silver in an early production. Who is it? Robert Newton. Yes. Robert Newton's portrayal of long John Silver. Oh, I see what you mean. Yes, that's where the accent comes from. There's no reason to think that pirates talk like we did when you first came on the show. That's all down to Robert Newton in the film the west country accent. Yeah, but Milton uses the word shiver. Does he? In that context. Sorry, in that context? In the context of splitting. Splitting a piece of wood or something like that. Yeah, yeah, I like it back. A piece of wood, really hard, as if with a cannonball. It will. It will move before it splits apart. It will shiver. There you go. That's where you get the skin. Beautiful answer. Round of applause for Tony, please. Oh, it's my birthday as well. Oh, look at that. Look at that. Mounting a subtle bid there for the. For the mystery, our board game prize. I think, young Tony, whether or not it proves fruitful, only time will tell. 1227 is the time. So I hope that Nicolas daughter is happier with that answer than mine. It looks like I was wrong, actually. Ollie's in Watford. Ollie, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Ollie. So my question is, I reached the ripe old age of 30 years old. Yes. So a lot of my friends have started churning out children. Yes. And as a result, many a weekend is now spent visiting these little babas and. Lovely. I'm quite, quite competitive and like to have a staring contest with them. Okay. And I have noticed that they literally just don't blink. Babies seem to blink once a minute and I want to know why the babies blink so much less than adults. And why do we start to blink more as we grow older? Are you sure? I mean, are you sure? I'm pretty sure that babies. I mean, unless all of my friends babies are anomalies, which I don't think they are, but I've noticed, and it's been a few weekends in a row, a staring contest with little children, which sounds odd, but they just blink. They just blink less. And there must be a reason why. I don't know if their eyes are smaller. So they don't need to blink. Well, their eyes are. They're more moist. Moist. They don't need to blink. Or maybe it's something to do with processing with the brain and processing imagery because they're less developed. But I feel like there is a reason. Well, they might work. We shall find. I mean, I mean, how much of your weekend do you spend having staring contests with babies? I feel like I'll have to ramp it up if I don't get an answer. It could just be you putting myself on a register. No. 29 minutes after twelve is the time. Thank you, Ollie. The staring contests with babies who blink so rarely. Not something I've ever picked up on in the past. Holly Harris is here now with your headline mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1233 is the time. Don't forget that the mystery hour is available as a self contained podcast. And there are loads, there must be hundreds of them. And I don't know what you're doing. There's three bank holidays on the way. We just got the email through asking about which ones we're taking off to, which I like to reply. All of them. If you're doing long car journeys, then the mystery, our podcast, is actually pretty wonderful. It's an almost sort of limitless supply of entertainment going back a long, long time. And you can get it from global player. So the full archive available at Globalplayer, which you can download@globalplayer.com or just google it and download it there and then you can find it. Find the mystery hour archive. There's loads of them and they're completely self contained. It's not like you have to listen to the rest of the show. You can just pick up a mystery out and it's going to be a bit shorter than an hour because we cut out the break. So you've got. And there are ads on it, but not in the way that they punctuate the program proper. That's a nice phrase, punctuate the program proper. So there you go. That's my little tip for the day for you. There is. Get the global player and get your mystery hours ready for the bank holiday car journeys. George is. Oh, come off it. Are you supposed to put phonetic spellings up of words like that? I know. It's George Keith. It's where he is that I'm struggling with. I'm gonna have a go at it. George is in Nimegen in the Netherlands. George, question or answer? Here's the question. I'll give you three out of ten for your pronunciation of Nijmaker. Nijmeker. Yeah. You say the G is. If you're trying to get some phlegm in the back of your head. You knew that. That's highly Geist. That's what they used to say in church. Haile Geist. Heiligeist. Heiligeist. So it's Nijmechen. Nijmegen. Nijmekh. You don't say the n at the end. Skip the end. Right, let's start again. Let's start again. No wonder they didn't put the phonetic spelling up there as a. She tried. I know. I wouldn't know where to start. George is in Nymeca. George, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Okay. In evolutionary terms, what is it with scabs? Why do they itch? Because presumably cavemen who got scabs, that itch would scratch them and they'd get infected and they'd die and they wouldn't pass on their genes. But everybody scabs itch. We've all survived in evolutionary terms. Why? You may be coming at it from the wrong angle. No, no, no, I'm not, am I? You might be, because it might be that the itch is of evolutionary benefit in a different context. In what way? To stop you itching? To say, oh, to get you annoyed? No, you need to think, what is happening when a scab itches is not the reason why itching has had an evolutionary benefit. Itching has had an evolutionary benefit. So, for example, you would spot an insect crawling on you and take it off before it could bite you and infect you with malaria or something like that. So the scab causes itching for the same reasons that a mosquito does, but without the evolutionary benefit. Yeah, I'm not going to buy that, because surely, surely there will have been a bunch of people who scab stitched less and a bunch of people who scab stitched more, they would scratch less and then gradually through the generation. That's what I'm saying. I don't think it's possible to have an itchless scab. I think the things that, I mean, what is going to give you the bigger evolutionary benefit? Getting a mosquito before it kills you or not having an itchy scab. Yeah, yeah, I'll give you that. The mosquito, before he kills you or anything else, any other evil insect. Anything else that's on your skin. You know, the sensitivity of your skin, all sorts of things burning, all sorts of things there. But the price you pay for the sensitivity of your skin is an itchy scam. Is an itchy scam. I've got all their albums. Yeah, late seventies. I think it's John Peel. I'll put it on the board. I'll put it on the board. Put it on the board. But I'm liking my answer, George. I'm not going to lie to you. Yeah, I'll give you more for your answer than I gave you for your pronunciation of nightmare. Yeah. So that's a four out of ten then. Thanks a bunch. Thank you, George. Why does Kabzich David's in Highgate. David, question or answer? Answer. James. Good morning. Right, a couple of reasons. The first one is, if it's a white stick, it's most reflective to light, so you could see it from a greater distance. If it was another color, say blue, green or red, it could be confused with another color. So blue for green or red for green or yellow for blue. Interesting. So that's the two main reasons. Also, as an aside, there is also a stick, if you happen to be unfortunate, to be blind and deaf and dumb, which is longer. And I believe it's stripes. Oh, really? I've never seen one of those. You don't often, fortunately. Where did it start, do we know? I haven't looked, to be honest, but I would imagine sometime in the thirties or forties where motor cars were more. Yeah, maybe, yeah. Becoming more prevalent. Qualifications? A wheelchair car driver for five years. I've done numerous NVQ's in the past on health and safety. Okay. And it's come up there. It's come up in there. Yeah. I can't remember. No, that's fine. No worries. Round of applause for David. There's still room for when it began to be answered. But he answered half of the question. Oh, he answered the question. It just turned into two questions, didn't it? In the course of being asked, Lee is in Twickenham. Lee, question or answer? Answer. Carry on to the whether brain squeeze causes neurological damage or if it's medically. Yeah. Is it bad medically? No, no. It's really just your blood vessel constricting which sends a message to your brain and it's a neurological response to pain. So they. So they constrict and then they open again. There's no lasting damage or change? No, no damage whatsoever. Just like a response. Why does it happen, do you know? Well, we respond to pain and touch through cold and hot. So our brain, whether something is hot or cold, and we have those same blood vessels in our mouths and connected to us throughout our body. Qualifications? It's a terrible phone. Oh, sorry. I'm a psychologist. Studies neurology. That'll do. Round of applause for Lee, please. Thank you. No, thank you. 1239 is the time and Chris is in Dunfermline. Question or answer, Chris? It's a question. James question. Carry on. Okay, so why is it that when you hear somebody's car alarm or house alarm or whatever suddenly start to blare away, we say, ooh, that arms gone off. Yeah. When surely it's gone on. Oh, yeah. Also. Also once it's on, if you want somebody to stop it, you say, I wish they'd switch that off. You do? Even though it's gone off? Well, switch off and gone off are not the same thing. Well, isn't it? No, I mean, it's not. I mean, it's gone off, like. And it comes from a firework or something like that, doesn't it? It's gone off like a firework or it's gone off like a. Like it's released. So it wouldn't have been electric originally. It would have been. It would have been released, in a sense, would have gone off. A bomb goes off as well, doesn't it? Well, it does, yes. So is that. You're right, yeah. So that's the same. I think that's what it is. It's not a bimetallic strip. It's not an on off thing. It's gone off. Well, the electric ones, I think, probably are, but. No, they are now, but it comes from a time it's linked more to an explosive. It's not really working, is it, this answer? If you're honest, you're very polite, Chris. I salute your politeness there and your diplomacy. Sometimes embark on a flight of fancy, Chris. And halfway through, I can tell I'm going to pull it off and we are actually going to arrive at a profoundly plausible answer. And then there are times like this. Well, I wasn't terribly sure how plausible a question it was, to be honest. I mean, I'm not sure about the question either, actually, if we're going to be doing full disclosure. But it is an issue at first glance. It is counterintuitive that when the alarm goes on, we say that it has gone off. So I will put it on the board and I can only apologize for my attempt to answer it. Zero. 345-606-0973 Pete's in Brentwood. Pete, question or answer? Answer, Jane. Carry on. It is for the when. What was the first movie to use popular commercial tracks in their soundtrack? Yes, it was the graduate, which I think you're. The question actually mentioned qualifications. How do you know that, then? Because I worked on a tv show for kids called mini movies, which was all about movie making and part of it was about movie soundtracks. And in our research that came up, that was the first soundtrack, the first album of songs from a film that were not sung by characters in the film. Yes. The first one with the first commercially released soundtrack was Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Disney's version, which comes from the. That's incidental music, isn't it? And they've got the dwarves singing the songs as well. Isn't that amazing? So really, Alan answered his own question. That's not happened before on mystery out. He didn't. He should get the board game. Oh, controversial. But you definitely get a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A little bit of trivia there that you're not going to forget in a hurry. It's to you, Misses Robinson. Is Cecilia in that one as well? You're breaking my heart. You're shaking my confidence daily. The vamps did a lovely cover of that. I'm just burbling now and I should crack on. Sorry. June's in Enfield. June, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Where does the term a barrel of laughs originate? Now, June, this is absolutely fine and it's a brilliant question, but I have got a new producer working with me today and she is unaware of the fact that we only do one origin of a phrase story a week. Otherwise, oddly. No, it's not you. It's not you, June. It's not you. It's Keith, actually. He is the old hand on the program today and he should have been looking out for this, because, bizarrely, if we let one on, we get 100. So when shiver me timbers went, lots of people would have thought that. It sets your brain off in a certain direction. I bet it was shivamy timbers that made you think about barrel of laughs. Yes, it was. Ah, yes. That's how it works. It's live psychology on the radio. June, this is incredible. Absolutely. So it's fine and it's on the board. I just. I'm just reminding myself, really, and cautioning Keith that we don't. So we don't. Certainly don't want any more. But where does the phrase barrel of laughs come from? I like that. I know. We shall find out. It might be a music hall song. Who knows? It could be. There's all manner of things. It could be. So we need the barrel of laughs, we need the alarm going off, we need the itchy scabs, we need the blinking babies. We need the oldest joke. We've done the potholes, we've done the white sticks and we've done the first film soundtrack. It is quarter to one mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1248 is the time. We didn't have that, Will. You're wrong, mate. We didn't have the alarms question three weeks ago. I've checked. There's a. No, I don't. I'm pretty sure we didn't. I'm bad at remembering things, but we didn't have it that recently. I'm sure Brad's in Oldham. Brad, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's an answer. Good man. Bring it on. Staring competition question. I'll give you an answer. And I will also give you, your listeners, a tip as to how to help with staring competitions and how to give you an edge. Fantastic. The reason for it is that the front of our eyeball, the color part of your eye, the skin that covers that called cornea, is very, very sensitive. And that has to be covered by a layer of tears all the time. Yes. So every time we blink, our eyelids squeegee a layer of tears over the front of our eyeball which then evaporate. And when they evaporate, it causes you to blink again. Yes. So if you. If you try and try to keep your eyes open, the tears evaporate and you sooner or later have to blink. Yeah. You can feel this sometimes if you. Yes. I am going to hurry you slightly, if I may, if that's okay, because there are quite a few answers still needed before home time. Carry on. This is a quick version. What happens is, as you get older, the structures cause chemistry to. So kids have thicker tear films than adults, basically. There you go. Round of applause. What are your qualifications? I'm an electrician. There you go. Fantastic. I bet your eye examinations take a long time. Brash. Go on, quickly. What's the tip for the staring competition? In a sentence, keep your head back so your eyelids move closer together. Ah, okay. And then just watch them also. That gives you quite. Gives you quite a beady demeanor as well, which is going to intimidate your opponent. I had a staring competition with Colin Murray the other day when we were selling the big issue together in Covent Garden. And I like to feel that I intimidated him with that stare off. Great work, Brad. Thank you. Sorry to hurry you, mate, but I always get conscious of the time when there are still a few answers awaited. James is in Belfast. Question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, I've got an answer for. I believe I've got an answer for the oldest joke question. Fantastic. Go on. So I believe that the. So the first written language was by the ancient sumerian civilization in Mesopotamia, which is like modern day Iraq. Yes. And forensic anthropologists, I read in a book on this once, found a stone that had a joke that was written. A dog walked into a bar. A dog walked into a bar and I can't see it. A dog walked into a bar. Or I think it might have been like tavern or something. Right. But a dog walked into a bar and said, I can't say a thing. I'll open this one. And it's. It's believed. Nobody knows what the joke. Why it's funny. It had to have been related to their civilization in some way. But that's one of, if not the first ever documented joke. I believe there's another one from the Sumerians, actually. Okay. Which is something which has never occurred since time immemorial. A young woman did not. And I'm going to translate it as break wind in her husband's lap, which also doesn't make sense. So what are your qualifications? What are your. Where did you get that one? I'm a researcher in evolutionary biology, and whenever I was doing my undergraduate degree, I did a forensic anthropology module where I wrote a paper on the evolution of language. So that's. It's just from reading. I think it might have been from a yuval miller Harari book that I got it. You know, the author of Sapiens. I think it might have been one of his books. Cool. I mean, it is almost certainly going to be the Sumerians. There might be some dispute over which one it actually is because they'll be discovered at roughly the same time. It's got you a lovely round of applause. There's one from the six, 1600 BC, about a pharaoh. Do you know this one, King Snofrun? I don't know. How do you entertain a bored pharaoh? How do you entertain a bored pharaoh? You sail a boatload of young women dressed only in fishing nets down the Nile and urge the pharaoh to go and catch a fish. It's the way I tell him. It's the way I tell him. Josh, you've got a bright picture. 1252 is the time ash is in Oldham. Ash. Question or answer? Hi, good afternoon, James. Nice to speak to you. First time caller. Welcome. Thank you, mate. Me and my mate, we call you James Neutral. I don't think I want to know why. What have you got for me? It's an answer to the question. For the alarm. Good man. For the alarm. Why do we say an alarm goes off? Because for any alarms we set off, like security of fire, we set them as they are on. When, uh, like, even in a car or a security alarm, they're already on. So if anything happens, goes wrong. So. So you turn it on. They're already on. That's what I mean. So you put the alarm on, and it's not off. Of course. So it's etymologically fascinating that. So when you leave the house, you put your alarm on, even though it's not making any noise, the alarm is on. Exactly. The. That's always all the time on. And then it goes. When it happens, something happens. It goes off, will then go off. So it's primed, in a way. Oh, I love that. Yeah, of course. Blimey. It's obvious when you think about it. What are your qualifications? I'm studying electrician level three. Oh, blimey. You'll never be short of work. I hope so. No, you won't. Round of applause, rash. Thank you very much. Thank you, mate. So, likewise, and thank you for the kind words. Everybody today has been very kind. I sound like the elephant man. You've all been most kind. Marks in gypsy hill. Question or answer? I have the answer, James. Go on, then. There was a gentleman who was alleged to invent the white cane in about 1921. His name was James Biggs. Biggs. He was an artist who lost. Yeah, Biggs. And he lost his sight, and he could no longer be an artist. And he was concerned about the traffic in his area, and so he took his artist skills and painted his stick, his walking stick, white so traffic could be more visible of him. And that's the alleged rumor of where that started from. Love it. A lot of qualifications. I, unfortunately, spent three years as a blind person, so I wanted to know where all that stuff came from. And then you stopped being a blind person. Yes, I had a very good doctor, and after 8 hours of surgery, she managed to restore my eyesight to as good as it is now. Wow. Well, it's great. Stale. It feels almost a bit inadequate now to give you a round of applause, given that the doctor gave me your sight back. But here it is. The floor should go to the doctor. Yeah, well, absolutely, you should. Thank you, mate. And Crikey, Hayley is in Guildford. Question or answer, Hayley? It's answer. We've gone off all in on the white sticks. Yes. Which one? The scab one. Yes. Why do scabs itch. So scabs it. So basically, when you cut yourself and you're having basically a healing process, there's higher blood flow, there's more inflammatory markers, including histamine, which makes the area itchy. So if you had allergic reaction, it's widespread, but if it's just to a scab, it's localized, it makes it really itchy. Everybody has itchy scabs. What evolutionary purpose does histamine serve? Histamine is it's more a warning shot for your body that something's wrong. Yeah. So it is isolated to the area that something's wrong. So it doesn't serve any pub. It's actually bad to have an itchy scab because it makes you more likely to scratch it. And scratching a scab is not a good thing to do. But the production. Rip it off. Yeah. The production of histamine in all other contexts is an evolutionary positive. It is, yeah, kind of. Right. But I didn't. Yeah. I didn't have the technical know how to know why I was right, really? What are your qualifications? Medical doctor. Well, that'll do nicely. Round applause for Doctor Hayley. Thank you. Thank you. Graham's in. Lewis Graham. Question or answer? That's an answer. It's about the music in film. Oh, no, no. What, a steward's inquiry? I'm afraid so. Well, maybe. I'm not sure it qualifies. In. In the mid fifties, there's a film called the Girl. Can't help it. Yeah. And there's music in the films and the original artists appear as themselves in the film, playing the music count. They don't take any part of the actual matter. Not acting. No. So it doesn't. No, no, no. Doesn't matter, does it? Because they're not. They're not. They are performed in the film. I think it's. Well, I think they're miming, quite honestly. Yeah, but I. Don't be so pedantic. It's got nothing. It's a Jane Mansfield film, isn't it? Do you know who else is in it? France. Domino. Little Richard. My great uncle Edmund. Eddie. Eddie Cochran. Edmond. Fifties music. Edmund O'Brien. Edmund O'Brien is in it. He's the second male lead. Oh, right. He's not really my great uncle, just in case. Anyway, you're not getting a round of applause for that. Sorry. No, I thought it's worth a try. Because it is earlier than the graduate. It is, but the songs are. Because you could go for the Jungle Book or something like that. The songs are performed in it. That's the point. So the graduate is the first film soundtrack to contain music that was not performed by anybody in the actual film, which is a lovely little bit of trivia. So what didn't we get then? Barrow laughs Poor old June in Enfield is the only one that's going to be going home unsatisfied. We've got the alarms, the scabs, we got the brain freeze. We got the oldest. Oh, June, I'm sorry. Let me think. Let me ask Sheila Fogarty, what's the origin of the phrase barrel of laughs? Absolutely no idea. Oh, come on. Just. Just make something up. It's only June. Oh, gosh. Barrel of laughs. Was it something to do with fairgrounds? That's what I was about to say. Comes from the fairgrounds. I mean, it's sarcastic usually, isn't it? You say something barrel of laughs they're not very funny. Anyway, I'm going to give it to Alan, actually, because that soundtrack question turned out to be so interesting, I think. Can I google it or is that breaking the rules? You can't Google. No, I mean at the end of the. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course you can. Don't throw to me yet. Where does it come from? So I'm giving it to Alan in Liverpool. The film soundtrack question, I think, don't you? Is that a popular choice? We happy with that? Excellent. That's it for me for another day. I have no. What? Go on, then. Oh, you're looking up now. You can't do that. If you. It was awful. The reason is awful. I don't even want to share it with you. That's how you build up tension. You can tell she's done this before. Stay tuned. Srila Fogarty at 04:00 five to four today will tell you where the phone. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on global player. Remember what I told you about the mystery hour podcast as well? And rewinding and pausing when you're listening live. So download global player for free, either from your App Store or just head to globalplayer.com dot. Tom Swarbrick with you at four. And now it's time for a parody. Laughs I'm afraid it's not. It's really not. No. My main theme today is the lack of hope in our politics. Cheer up, everyone. It'll be fine.