Is my phone listening to me?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh. Three minutes after twelve is the time your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial is upon us. If you've got a question that needs answering, a mystery that needs solving, a conundrum that needs unraveling. I've run out of verbs because I was going to say an enigma that needs curing. I don't know. Curing rhymes with Turing. Just putting it out there, then this is your opportunity to do so. And if you like demonstrations of knowledge, and indeed, if you enjoy indulging in demonstrations of your own knowledge, then you are encouraged, passionately encouraged, to ring in with an answer to one of the questions that is asked. To do either of those things, you need to ring zero 345-606-0973 as things stand, I don't take contributions via any other media, so not even via WhatsApp. But if you send me something funny, I may read it out, but I won't take questions or answers. Usually. The good news is there is a mystery hour board game for the provider of my favorite contribution of the day. And you can find out more about the mystery hour board game. If you're not lucky enough to win one, you can buy one at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. And there is no bad news. So there's two lots of good news. The first bit of good news is that you can win a mystery out board game. The second bit is, if you don't win one, you can buy one. And the third bit of good news is that there is no bad news. The full terms and conditions for this competition are at LBC dot co dot UK dot. Shall we crack on? Has anyone noticed I've got a tickly throat today? Have I managed to cover it up? I know you have, because you see me cough, Keith. I'm talking to people who can't currently actually see me. Have I managed to cover it up successfully? Do you know how? I've got throat spray, fresh pineapple and a smoothie. And I've also got a cough button, which has come in very useful. But usually when I've got a tickly throat, you can tell. I think today I've covered it up quite well. I could be wrong. I just mentioned it because it's getting quite bad now. Nina's in Manchester. Nina, question or answer? Hello, I've got a question. Carry on. Okay, so I've been watching gladiators every Saturday on the tv and all. And all the gladiators have names like legend and Bionic and Elektra. There's not. Is there one called bionic there? There is. Okay. Yeah. So I want to know, in the roman times, did the gladiators have names when they entered the arena? Well, of course they must. How? Well, I mean. No, but names like legend or fury or. Oh, as opposed to John or Maxim Maximus Fisticus. Yeah. Nicknames. You mean stage names or nicknames? Stage names. Stage names, yeah. I like that. That's a good question. I think. I don't think so. Qualifications? I studied Latin, but who knows? I mean, you'd have thought. Well, the generals had nicknames, so generals would be known as things like, you know, slayer of the Etruscans or something like that. Yeah, but I don't. I like it a lot. What will it change? How often do you think of the Roman Empire, Nina? Not every day. I don't know why that's funny, but I know that it's was a thing, wasn't it, last year? I don't know why it was a thing. I don't know why it's funny, but I kind of had a sense that Nina would get it, even though I don't. Six minutes after twelve, did gladiators in roman times have nicknames, stage names, showbiz names like, you know, Iron Hammer or something like that? Vikings did, I think. But they weren't. That was in war rather than in gladiatorial conduct. And thank you, Martin, for reminding me of some of the names popularized by Monty Python's pastiches of roman life, which I can't read out on the radio either. Chris is in Stoke nearington. Chris, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. Why is it that when you're bilingual you seem to have a different speech or tone of voice in between the languages that I speak? In one you're usually higher and the other you are a lot lower. Which one are you higher in? I'm higher in Portuguese than I'm in English. Ask me that question again in Portuguese, please. You went deeper. Oh, so that oscillates. Well, you def. I think you definitely went deeper then. Not higher, but still. Your question still stands. Let me just. Let me try. Let me try. Mila Ligo. No, I did that on purpose. Then I've got to try. That's the thing. If you think about it, you do. On purpose. But I have four years old now. Yes, and he's bilingual. From. From, from Barth. Don't tell Nigel, don't tell Nigel. Farage. You'll try and get him deported. Oh, my God. Don't worry, I'm joking for now. It's funny to see him talking because he changes words in the same phrase and when it's Portuguese, it's higher. In English, it's lower. Oh, my God. But, I mean. But if that happens to everybody, maybe Portuguese is just spoken in it. No, it can't. But do you have any sort of barry white type people in Portugal? People who talk, like, really deep voices in Portuguese? Or is it a language that lends itself to a higher, higher tones? I'm just going to try a bit of Greek. I speak a little bit of Greek. I go a little bit higher in Greek. I think I am very tired today. Yeah, maybe I don't. Well, we'll find out. I mean, you might be talking gibberish, Chris. I don't know. I have a lot of friends that are bilingual and they have kids that are bilingual and you've all noticed it. Yeah. And we all discuss about. Why is that? Is it just. Yeah. What's Portuguese for gibberish? Ah, blah, blah, blah. We usually say, blah, blah, blah, I'll do blah, blah, blah. Thank you. Philip's in Sandhurst. Philip, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Me and you both grew up in the seventies. There wasn't a lot for a little lad to do in the seventies. Only three channels on the telly and all that. Did you ever get crossfire? Did you ever get crossfire? I didn't have crossfire, no, but I had to harrier jump jet behind me, the one that you strung up to the ceiling, and it went up the. Up the string and down the string. That was. That was pretty admired by my mates. Novelty wore off quite quickly, though, didn't it? Yes. I mean, that's all it did. Crossfire. You could have a fight. You could have a fight with Crossfire. You could play each other. I loved Crossfire anyway. And I had. Do you know what happened? You guess what I bought when I bought, when I won the premium bonds for that. I don't know. What was the. What was the game? You didn't have some people. I'll give you a clue. It wasn't big trap. It wasn't big trap. You sound bored with this. We are going to get to your question eventually. I'm just reminiscing. Okay. So what was the game? The game advertised? No, no, no, higher. Higher than that advertised on telly. Your parents probably couldn't afford it. Mine said they couldn't afford it. And then I won premium bonds and I bought it. What do you think? It was advertised on the telly, like the game that you couldn't believe how cool it was. And also the technology involved. That would be Simon says. Oh, that's quite strong play. I never got one of them. Tin can Alley. Do you not remember Tin can alley? Oh, yeah. Yeah, that was pretty good. You pulled a string in this. There wasn't any string, Philip. That's your jump jet. There wasn't any string. You just. It was a photoelectric cell. I realize now we had it tough in our house, mate. I don't know these games. The ones that cost. Well, I won the premium bonds. I won the premium bonds. I bought myself a racing bike from Woolworths and Tinker. I didn't let it change, but it was one of the best days of my life that. I mean, I believe I thought that I was like Mustafa, millions out of the wizard and chips comic. I've never. I don't think I've ever felt as flush as I felt that day. Anyway, can you remember why you rang in? No, not really, but it's nice having a chat. Two things I like to play with under the covers at night when I was a little lad in the ceiling. Listen here, it's not that kind of show. Don't worry. One was my little transistor radio. Yes, and the other was the torch, of course. And it all boys like a new torch. And with a new torch, with a really, really light big bulb in it and a big battery, you could shine it on the back of your hand in complete darkness and see the bones in your hand. And this perplexed me and enthralled me. So my question is, could you have a light? I. E. A torch that was bright enough to be able to see all your skeleton in your body. Wow. So if you like one of those spotlights that's pointed at Windsor Castle or something like that, if you could somehow get close enough to stand right in front of it without setting fire to yourself, would you be able to see the outline of your skull? Like I could when I was a little lad. I could see the bones in my fingers with my new torch. I like that one. Hello. You're on. Okay, can we find out about Phillips bones, please? Zero. 345-606-0973 so we've got the tonal languages. Why do people who speak two languages often go up a tone or two when speaking? One of them did. Gladiators in ancient Rome have their own stage names like, you know, all I can think of are rude. I can only think of double entendres. I can't say those out like Bionicus. And is it possible to shine a light so bright upon your own body that you can see the skeleton underneath? Perry's in Canary Wharf. Perry? Question or answer? Yeah, hi. Good afternoon, James. I have a question about sniffer dogs. Oh, yes. So, I work in Canary Wharf. I'm here at the moment and I've noticed quite a few sniffer dogs around recently. I can only assume that they're here to detect explosives. It's quite a high secure area. On holiday recently, going through Heathrow, more sniffer dogs. I can only assume that, therefore drugs, maybe for explosives, for all I know. And of course, you got that in the medical profession as well. Nowadays you have sniffer dogs detecting different things. So my question is, how specific is the training for sniffer dogs? If you take, say, the ones that detect drugs, do you only train them for the most obvious stuff rather than the more obscure drugs? I don't know what an obscure drug is. I don't know. LSD, for example, or, I don't know, those sort of ketamine. Perry, what have you got planned, mate? No, no, no, I just. No, no, officer. No. Someone must have thrown it into my pocket, officer. Well, I just need an answer before the. What? Yeah, before the delivery comes. Yeah, there it is. So I know what you city boys are like. So you want to know whether a sniffer dog can. I mean, how many drugs? You're not asking whether the ones that do drugs also do explosives? Well, I. That. That would be interesting. I can't imagine LSD has much of a. I have no idea. I honestly got no idea. So kind of what happens? You know, how. What can a sniffer dog sniff? Yeah, exactly. How much stuff can a sniffer dog sniff when a sniffer dog sniffs his stuff? That's your question? I wouldn't want to say that myself, but. Yes, exactly. There we go. How much stuff can a sniffer dog sniff? Oh, 3456. That's a good question, Perry, but please be careful. It's coming up to 12:15. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. How much snuff? Snuff can a sniffer dog sniff when a sniffer dog sniffs his stuff? Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1215 is the time. On we go. Adams in south Woodford. Adam, questions or answer? James, I have a question. Carry on. So, my question is, when a high street of shops is created. Yes. Or you have a residential road with houses. How is it decided which end has the low numbers and which end has the high numbers? What? I mean, what makes you think it is decided? It could be fairly random, couldn't it? I don't know. All I know is when I walk my dog on our estate, I go down side roads and sometimes it starts with a low number. And sometimes it starts with a high number. Yeah. Okay. It's not alternative, so I just don't know. Or do they were built in? Don't know. No, I know. I'm just thinking out loud. I like that. It's a good question. Numbering streets, high streets. How do they decide where a street start? Where a new street starts? No, no, when the road is created. But how do they decide which end are going to be? The low numbers. Yeah, but that's where it starts. That's what, like, number one is the start of the street. So how do they decide where a new street starts? So you've got a street. Yeah, okay. You're right. I mean, we've done stuff similar to this before, back in the day. Councils play a big role in naming streets, and the post office, I think, plays a role in numbering. I could be wrong about that. So we want to know who numbers new streets. Yeah. Cool. And wish you throat better. Thank you very much. Can you tell? Honestly, I did notice, actually, yes. All right, then. Never mind. I thought I was doing so well. Thank you, Adam. Jeff's in Bishop's. Thought for Jeff. Question or answer? Question. Yes. Good morning. Hello, Jeff. How are you, mate? Afternoon. Not too bad, thank you. Why do we still speak with our hands? You mean gestures? Yeah, yeah, gestures. And I think, well, what if you stop listening to the mouth? You can't understand what the hands are saying. Anyone? What? What? I. What? Why do you use the word still, Jeff? What makes you. What is it about modern life that makes you think we might have done away with hand gestures by now? I don't know, but a hand gesture is. I mean, it emphasizes, doesn't it? I do it quite a lot and I'm on the radio, Jeff. Yeah, you do? On the radio. Yeah, I do it on the radio. Hi, youtubers. Don't forget to subscribe. And ring that bell like that thing that. Do you want to say hello to the youtubers, Jeff? Yeah. Hello, youtubers. Thank you. Say, don't forget to subscribe. Okay, I will. No, no, you say it. Subscribe. How about that? That's brilliant. You're a natural. Have you done this before? Have you done any voiceover work? Thank you. Please. Thank you. So what's the question again? Why do we use hand gestures when we speak? Yeah. Why do we use hand gestures when we're already talking to the people? All right. On all programs, we want an anthropologist or an evolutionary. We want someone to explain it with more than me saying, well, it helps you emphasize stuff, don't you? Yes. Yes, Jeff. Leave it with me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Jeff. It's 18 minutes after twelve. That was a short break. I keep thinking I'm late for the break, but it was just a short break that we've come back. I ruined it. There was no hiding that, was there? Blair's in Edinburgh. Blair, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Blair. What it was, was I've had family over a couple of weeks ago and we were discussing halal meat. Oh, yeah? And next again day, my Facebook had all these adverts about halal meat, but nobody googled anything or anything like that. I'm just trying to understand how it could possibly have happened. Well, I'm torn here, Blair. Okay. I'm torn between wondering whether or not this question should have been allowed on, which is fine, it's not your fault, but also thinking that you're right, because everyone thinks this has happened to them, don't they? I'm not specifically with halal meets, but you. You have a sort of talk about a trampoline and the next thing you know, your Facebook is showing you trampolines, or you, and I presume you've got some devices in your house, like an Alexa, have you? Or something like that. No. Smart tv? I don't. I don't. Yeah, I've got smart tv. Yeah, yeah. So that's what you're thinking. We are suspicious that someone is eavesdropping on us and then using it to curate our social media to sell us stuff. Yeah, yeah. But how would that actually work? Well, I don't think it does happen, but we all think it does, which is why I worry that you shouldn't have been allowed on because it might all go a little bit chemtrails. Ah, okay. Do you see what I mean? I do see what you mean, yeah, yeah. It's just very, very strange. It is very strange. Is it possible that they are listening to us? That's the question, yeah, yeah. I don't know if you'd get a direct answer on that or not, but. Well, someone who works in the sector will know. I mean, but would they be allowed to tell us if they were. Again, I'm not sure. I'm just asking the question. Should we try it out now? Of course we can. All right. Air fryers. I'll need a call back tomorrow. Have you got anything yet? Have you got anything yet, Blair? Air fryers. Nothing yet. I bought a lovely air fryer, Blair. It's a ninja. I bought myself a ninja air fryer. It's got two compartments in it. And I am cooking up some delicious grub in my new air fryer. Oh, you're awful bosh, but you have two compartments. Thank you very much. You're not wrong. I am a connoisseur of air frying. Let's see what happens to our social media. Yeah, no problem. Got to 01:00. Got 40 minutes to get the skates on. Thank you, Blair. Joshua. Is annealing Joshua. Question or answer? It's a question, James. So my question is, when a person has an operation and they need a blood transfusion, obviously they get the blood from a blood bank. How? If an animal needs a blood transfusion, where do they get the blood from? Well, I mean, that must be the same, mustn't it? There must be animal blood banks. But we don't take our dogs to go give blood. Do it. Well, you don't. You don't and I don't. To be fair, my dog's so small, you wouldn't barely get a pint out of it. But the. I mean, there must be perhaps other people who do. Other dogs who do. No? Well, I've never heard of it. No, nor have I, but, I mean, I'm just working on Occam's razor, you know? There must be. If our biology is correct and animals do, in fact, receive blood during some medical procedures, blood transfusions, then there must be a store of blood. There just must be, like night follows day. No? Well, I guess so. I guess the question is, do we have blood banks for animals and dogs and things? Yeah, there it is. I presume so. But we need some proof, don't we, Joshua? Yes. Right. You're on. Zero. 345-606-0973 is our smart technology listening to us and therefore putting things in front of us on our social media that they have heard us talk about? I know it's a bit tinfoily, but you'd be amazed how many people have already text me, are there blood banks for animals? Where do they get the blood from? If an animal needs some blood during a medical procedure, why do we still use. Why do we use hand gestures. When we are perfectly capable of explaining ourselves verbally or vocally. How do they number streets? New streets? Where do they decide which end is one? How much stuff can a sniffer dog sniff? When a sniffer dog is sniffing stuff, that's about the array. Do the same. Dogs do drugs and explosives. And can they do all drugs? How many drugs can they do? Is there a light? Can you get a light so bright that if you stood in front of it, your endoskeleton would become visible? I may have just misused the word endoskeleton, but I couldn't resist the opportunity. Why do bilingual people often speak one language in a higher and or lower tone than the other language? And did gladiators in ancient Rome have stage names? That's a lovely selection of questions, all of which need answers on zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Paul's in Cardiff. Paul, question or answer? I'm answered today, James. Carry on, Paul. So the question about sniffer dogs. Oh, yes. So I had the very fortunate job once upon a time, about 18 years ago, of working at the defence Animal training center in Mountain Mowbray. Oh, cool. Where we were responsible for training all of the mod's dogs, which was an absolutely fantastic job. And the answer to your question is that, yes, dogs can be multi disciplined. They're usually for ease, single discipline. So a dog would be trained on drugs or cadaver currency, medical arms and explosives, but they're trained on specific substances. Okay. So as long as the dog has access to that specific substance to be able to sniff it, pretty much any dog that has a high drive for the ball and wants to please their owner, their handler, they can be trained to detect pretty much anything. It does take a long time to train these dogs. I'm sure the more substances that you're training the dog on, the longer the training will take. Does it get easier? I mean, is the first one the hardest? And then after that, you can just add things to their palate? That. Yeah, that's basically it. So it takes about six months to train a very high specification dog. So something that's detecting drugs, for example, or arms and explosives or currency, etcetera, take about currency, even. So, you could. So LSD probably has an aroma of some sort, would it or not? I don't know. Yes. Yeah. As do physical notes that we're going to do. And there's no limit on how much a good dog can do, how much stuff a dog can sniff, a sniffer dog can sniff stuff. I don't think there's a limit on how much stuff a sniffer dog stuff can sniff. Sniff, theoretically, but obviously we want the dog to be really more accurate with a fewer. Higher. Okay. So you train the dogs accordingly and specialize as well, a more refined palate. Qualifications? I know, you told us, but you have to go through the motions. Sorry, repeat question. Qualifications this. How do you know? You've already told me, but you have to tell me again because that's how it works. Great. 2006 to 2008, I was very fortunate to be one of the officers responsible for dog training at the defense Animal training center in Melt Mowbray, which is hundreds of really hard working military folk training thousands of dogs every year to go all over the world to do this work. Brilliant stuff. Round of applause. Thank you, Paul. Great stuff. Laura's in Haringey. Laura, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. It's about the bilingual people have a different terrain in different languages. Oh, yes. Yeah. So basically, each language is positioned in a different part of the body. So each language is speech differently. Some languages are pitched quite forward, like near the, you know, the top of the mouth and the nose. Some languages are pitched kind of at the back, and some languages tend to be slightly higher in the head. So each language has a tone that belongs to that language. In fact, some languages are tonal and they have different tones that belong to that language. But in the case of, like, latin languages, for instance, like Italian, Spanish or Portuguese, they tend to be pitched more forward and they tend to be slightly higher and. Yeah, so when I speak in English, for instance, I have a lower tone than when I speak in Italian. And when I had to. I'm an actor. When I had to learn English, like to act in English, one of the main thing wasn't just pronunciation, but was where to pitch my voice and where to position it. Yeah. So basically, you really feel it inside, like your palate and your mouth, where it's like a little bit like singing. You know, you can belt or you can have a head voice. And it's the same thing with languages. Each language which is positioned slightly differently. So, sounds different. I think that's it wouldn't happen to you because you would apply the way you speak English to any language. So you have to be genuinely bilingual then. Yeah. You have to be native speaker or completely bilingual so that you can switch. And when you switch, you feel that the voice comes from somewhere different. Pretty much, yeah, no, I get it. Qualifications? Well, I'm a voice actor. I'm bilingual. And I also teach voiceover. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Laura, please. Thank you. Lovely answer. Thank you, Laura. I just need to write your name down. That was Chris's question, wasn't it? And there we go. So that's why he's four year old and indeed he's got to be properly bilingual, not just so, which means, I think, thinking in two languages, rather than just translating it in your head and saying the foreign words out loud, which I can do a bit. Peter's in Staplehurst. Peter, question or answer? Oh, shall I squeeze, Peter? Yes. Well, I've started, so I'll finish. Oh, that's a different quiz, different game, I think. Question or answer, Peter? Answer. Carry on, mate. To the street numbering. Oh, yes. The numbers start, certainly for the London and around London area, the number start. Low numbers start near the centre of London. So the post office determines numbering, the post office determines what postcode you have. Not only is the low numbers nearest the city, but on the left hand side is always the odd number. So number one will always be on f 357 and 24 68 will always be on the right. As you look up the road from the low number again. So, and by the town or the city, do we mean the GPO or do we mean. I mean. Well, I would certainly for London, it's the city, it would be the city, but some roads are going to be. Are going to be horizontal to the city, if you see what I mean. They're not. There's not. Then the post office would have to make a decision. So just make a decision on it. Yeah. And we presume that the same thing happens in other, other areas, other. Other towns and villages. Yeah. I'm assuming that Manchester would have his own catchment area and it would all focus on the centre of central point. The centre of London is near. Check is near Charing cross station, and it's the post office that does it, that determines the numbering industry qualifications. 37 years. Started off as a postman, ended up as principal technical product consultant. That'd be nice. Well, there you go. Round of applause for Peter. What is a technical product in the context of the post office? You mean like new, new stuff? It's. Well, my team, I headed up the team that invented the barcoding system. We had to invent our own barcodes. If we used the baked beans tins barcodes, it would be far too long to go off the end of the envelope. So we had to develop our own barcode and then machines would have to read it. Optical character recognition machines. Would read it. I'm talking now about old stuff I left 22 years ago, retired. So I'm talking about old technology. But certainly the number in the streets has been timeless, time immemorial. Lovely stuff, Peter. Thank you. 1231 is the time and Amelia Cox is here with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1234 is the time. We've got questions remaining about whether or not gladiators in ancient Rome had stage names like the ones off ITV do now. What, you mean that's not his real name? Bionic? It's not his real name? I thought it was two words. I thought it was Irish. Bionic. Bionic. No, leave it, Jaz. Seriously. It lights bright enough to show your entire endoskeleton. Is there such a thing? Done the questions. Thanks to Laura, done the numbering streets as well. That was Peter, wasn't it, who answered Adam's question, why do we still have. Why do we use hand gestures when we can speak? Is there a relationship? Can they hear you like your smart tv or your Alexa device when you have a conversation and then it seems coincidentally, something you're having a conversation about appears on your social media adverts or something like that? Everyone, so many people have told me this has happened to them. I think it's happened to me, but has it actually happened to any of us? And is there a blood bank? Are there blood banks for animals? If not, how do they get the blood? Where do they get the blood from when an animal needs a blood transfusion? Nathan's in Portsmouth. Nathan, question or answer? It's a question, James. So the word Dutch. Yeah, let's say I said, how about you and me go out for a nice meal, James, but I'm a bit stint, so we'll have to go Dutch. We'll have to go Dutch, yes. And then after that, you want to buy my bathroom, because I sell bathrooms and you start bargaining on a price and I say, listen, mate, I'm not getting involved in a dutch auction with you. Fair enough. And then after that we go and buy an antique and we say, this is a bit of a dutch auction is going on here. Yeah. That's the same one as the last one. That's the same one as the last one. Yeah, that's it, yeah. And then you got dutch uncle. Dutch courage. What's the dutch uncle? I don't know, but I've heard the expression, but dutch courage. Yeah, dutch courage. So why do we use the word Dutch? We don't. There's no other word? Yeah. Well, in no sort of context, going Dutch is obviously completely unrelated to a dutch auction. Dutch courage. It's even a dutch pot. A dutch cooking pot. But that might have something to do with the shape. Well, I. I. You know, you probably don't know this. There's no reason why you should, but I read a lot of historical crime fiction set in the 17th century. Right. Yeah. I'm currently enjoying Sw Perry's series. In fact, I'm enjoying it so much, he got in touch and sent me a couple of the last three volumes in the series, which. So that's my reading sorted for the next couple of months, and I recommend them very highly. And we don't realize the demonization of the Dutch that was commonplace in this country at that time, partly because of trade proximity. I think the Dutch got blamed for the great fire of London in March. But imagine the Dutch as the 17th century equivalent of Muslims today, and they're routinely denigrated and blamed for things they haven't done or just immigrants in general. Negative context. Double dutches. Double dutches. Double dutches. So it probably goes back the 17th century when it wouldn't. It may have been a negative then, but it isn't a negative now. That happens quite a lot with the derivation of language. With the. With the development of language. Okay. Um. So I don't know, but I would not be surprised if the word 17th century appear somewhere in the answer. Lovely. I shall do my best for you. Thank you, Nathan. Thank you. How's the bathroom business? It's all right. Yeah? Yeah, it's okay. The wonderful world of bathrooms, obviously. There's a lot on the news in there about building and. Yes. Extra building and extra housing. So you need a bathroom. You need. You got a house, you need a bathroom, Nathan. That's one of the great truisms of life. 1238 is the time. Ian's in Warrington. Ian. Question or answer? It's an answer. Please, James. Carry on, mate. It's about the pet blood bank. Oh, yeah, there definitely is, because our dog's registered on it. Oh, well done. We've. We've got a very big dog. That's why a lot of people won't know about them. They've got to be. I think it's over 20 kilos. Ours is about 28. Yes. We were at a country fair, like one of these sort of, you know, horses and all sort of stuff with the dog. And there was a gazebo there with some very nice ladies and anybody that went past with a, you know, a large dog oh, yeah. They were approaching them and said, would you be prepared for your dog to be a blood donor? Oh, needs to be a big dog. Of course it needs to be a dog. Yeah. There's a weight limit. Yeah. So they took our name. We got a call back from them later. We were sent to a very big veterinary practice in the area and they had a whole sort of set up there. Big team of people. The first time you go, they try and see if the dog's calm enough. I wasn't going to give you training material so you can train him to be calm. And they call you back every so often. We've only done the first stage so far. But you're up for it? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah. Like that. A lot. And do you get paid or does the dog get a biscuit? No, the dog gets a biscuit and a toy. Yeah. Isn't it? And there it is. So we don't know much about it because it doesn't happen that much. But they do need a supply of it for when it does. Yeah. I don't know if it's about smaller animals, obviously, but there's the weight limit and they're quite strict about it. You know, if you take an amount of fluid, it's going to make the dog weaker. You get nothing out of line. You get nothing. I mean, when she's had a shave, when she's been to the groomers, she's. She's all. She's all skills, you know, she'd wash away in a. In a. In a rainstorm. Um. What is the name of the organized? What's the name of the organization? Can you remember? I can't. It's called something like pet blood bank or something. I can't actually remember the name of the organization, but, uh. But it's there and they're real and they're doing your stuff. Qualifications cleared up already. Ian, round of applause. He's got a big dog. A big dog who is gearing up to give blood. Steve's in Barnsley. Steve. Question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Good afternoon. A few years back, I used to work in a call center that would sell flights, seats on flights all around the world. Oh, yes. And I'm sure you're aware, a man of your knowledge, I'm sure you're aware all airports have got three letter codes. Oh, yes. So, to be boring, London Gatwicks, LGW, London, Heathrow, LHR and so on. And they all make. Realistically, they make perfect sense. When you look at them. You could normally work out where they are, but all airports in Canada start with a why. And I wondered why. The why? Why? Because I remember Toronto is Yyz. And when I asked my supervisor at the time, her response was, they, whoever they were, forgot about Canada. And I can't really accept that as an answer. No. No. So, I mean, it's a bit. It's. It's boring and not boring at the same time. This question, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. I was going to go with the not boring, hopefully. Well, it isn't boring now you've asked it. But I saw it written down on the screen. I thought it might be. It's. Why do. Yeah, why is it only Canada that do that? I mean, almost everywhere else, you're going to be able to recognize the city from the name of the airport. The code. The airport code? Yeah. More often than not, the. The letter sequence would make sense even if you couldn't necessarily work it out. But the likes of John F. Kennedy's, JFK and so on, you know, so the. The. At least the letters would be in the right order. You might not be able to work it out, but at least the letters are being the right order. But they all start with a y. Why? Why? Okay, you're on. We shall try and find out why. Why? Why, Steve. And someone will know. Hopefully they'll get in touch before the end of the program. Twelve. Which means you've got about 18 minutes, not including breaks. Rory's in Birmingham. Rory, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Rory. I just wanted to know what the average height of the clouds off the ground are in the UK, please. Just whatever the average clouds are. You know, the. Just the average height off the ground. So you've got to measure all the clouds? Well, no, no, whatever. And then divide it by. What is an average cloud? Well, I don't know. The most common cloud. What do you mean, the most common cloud? What's a common cloud? Common cloud, like a gray one. We're generally gray, isn't it? Well, it's. Why? Well, so you can't go for the color. It's usually the shape, isn't it? Like nimbo stratus or something like that? Yes, yes, yes, but whatever. The most average height of a cloud off the ground. Why do you want to know this? I was so curious. It's been bugging me for years, and I asked Google once and it came back with some weird answer, so I thought I'd try. You okay? Well, I'm touched by your faith. How high is the average pound? Well, I tell you what, if anyone answers this, I'll give you the money myself. Thank you. Thank you. Rory, how high is the average cloud? 0345. In the UK, specifically. Don't want any of those foreign clouds. It's got to be the UK. Zero. 345-606-0973 David's in Birmingham. David, question or answer? I'm not sure I can follow that, but there we go. It's an answer. Carry on, mate. It's to the gladiator question. Ah, gladiators. Yes, something like that. Yes. Yeah, they did have names. Shut up. So, yeah, there's some graffiti in Pompeii that has a thrakian gladiator called hilarious. And some other gladiator names. Yeah, but that was his name. Name. That wasn't a stage name. No, he was a stage name. Yeah. How do you think they'd know about him if they didn't know his name? It's graffiti. It's scrawled on a wall. No, I know, but that's probably what his mum called him. Well, quite possibly, but that's not necessarily. But. Yeah, but that wasn't a question, because they would know. But they were fake. But they were famous for it. No, I know, I know. He was. He was a famous gladiator and his name was hilarious. Yes, but the question was, did they have, like, the equivalent of names that gladiators on telly have, like. Well, it's possible that Hillary swallow wasn't his real. But they. But you. Doesn't mean anything that certainly at the moment, we. Lovely answer. Listen, you're going to get a round of applause anyway, but I don't think you've. You've satisfied, Nina. Well, all I know is that these days we do, because I used to do reenactments and I used to fight as a gladiator, and I have actually fought in a roman. A roman amphitheater under the name of bulbous, which isn't my name, so, yes, I like that. You're a big lad, are you, David? I'm a big lad. We have actually met briefly. Okay. But, yes, I'm a big lad and I also like to make people cry, so, yes, it's an audience. What did you wear when you were. Well, I was a thracian, so I wore, essentially, gladiatorial underpants called sublegaria. I wore padded leg guards, so, yeah, basically like cricket keeper pads, essentially. And a dirty great big helmet that it's almost impossible to see out of. Oh, yes. And I used to fight a lithe young chap who was a retiarius, who had a trident and a net. How. How vicious did you get with each other? Oh, I used to kill him regularly and he used to kill me regularly. So where did you do this? In Rome. I did it. Not in Rome, but I have done it in the. In the actual roman amphitheater at Kalyon in south Wales, near Newport. Oh, that's exciting. So I can send you a video. Yeah, it's great. Actually, one of my photos on the web is of me killing Steve. Steve? Don't call it Steve. Don't spoil it. Killing Thracius. Thracius minimus. I was the Thracius. He was the retiarius. Old pesky. I ate those retiarians. Seriously, what have they ever done for us? Well, they're quite literally pesky, aren't they? Yeah, exactly that. I love that. Where did we meet? At my Birmingham gig, was it? No, no, you. I bumped into you outside the. The office, actually, after I'd seen the one of the Ogwyn shows. Leicester Square. Yeah, I just happened to be in Leicester Square, so we had a little nappy. You did look quite scared when I approached and said hello. But that's because you were dressed as a roman gladiator, mate. Almost certainly. It was the pads that did it, wasn't it? Round of applause for David. Thank you. Thank you. 1247 is the time. Have we had a break yet or are we going for a break now? We're going for one now. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is ten to one and you're listening to mystery. We need quite a lot of answers still. I'll just tell you what I've written on my piece of paper. You know what the questions are. If you don't by now, it's too late. Bones and lights, hand gestures. Halal me and smart tvs. Done the animal blood donors. That was a nice one. Bathrooms. Why have I written down bathrooms? Oh, because Nathan answered the question. I just wrote down bathrooms. I got confused. Canadian airports, beginning with why and the height of clouds. Is that all? Is that everything I think it is? Richardson, Shrewsbury. Richard, question or answer? I've got an answer. Carry on. It's actually about gladiators. Oh, yes. I thought we'd done that. Well, I thought you were saying that you weren't satisfied with the answer. No, I said Nina wouldn't be satisfied, but it's the same. You're going to go further, are you? Yeah, I'm going to absolutely confirm that gladiators did have stage names. Fantastic. The vast majority of gladiators were slaves, and the owner of the slave could call them whatever they wanted, and they would do so. And that would depend on whether they wanted the gladiator to represent them as a goody or a baddie to some extent, or what the purpose of the gladiator was. And so they'd probably get their name after they had fought a few times. Well, I suppose you don't. Don't name a slave if they're going to die straight away. No. So you just like sponsorship in a way? Yeah, absolutely. Like having your name on a football shot. Yeah, yeah. Some members of society would want to name their gladiators after members of the imperial family of the time to kind of, you know, get favor or equally, they would name one that they thought was going to die, always set up to die as an enemy of Rome. So you'd get gladiators called Thrax, as your last caller mentioned, is the name for Gracie. Love it. Qualifications I researched. I mean, I love all things roman. I think about the roman empire many times a week. That'll come up on mystery. I was researching it to make a tabletop war game. Oh, cool. And did you make it? No, I switched to pirates and made one about pirates instead. What's that one? It's called Pirates of the Dread Sea. Like it? Yeah, it's all fantastic. You're not really supposed to plug board games on this program. Well, it's not board game so much as a war game, you know. Have you seen the mystery, our board game, ever? I've seen it. It looks fantastic. I recommend it to anyone. Yeah, same with your pirates of the dread sea. Round of applause. Round of applause for Richard, please. You're in it. Ree's in Bethnal Green. Question or answer? It's actually an answer, James. Yes. Carry on. So, the answer with regards to the hell. I mix in smart tvs. So the reason why he might be seeing it is because he's probably on the smartphone. And most people with smartphones like to install a ton of different applications. And what people don't seem to realize is when you install these various applications, I won't name the ones that I've come across, but the various applications, when you hit that big, long user agreement and you have to either accept or scroll, if you actually read some of those points, you actually give permission in the application to access your camera, listen to your microphone, or they can actually, in some cases, read some of your recent SMS messages. So quite naturally, if I've spoken to you and I've found something really great, and I've sent you a quick SMS and one of my applications has access to read my SMS messages, guess what? They'll know exactly I'm talking about it. And that goes back. That goes back to whatever algorithm is feeding adverts into your Facebook. Yeah, it's connected to everything else, because everything else that you have in your house, everything's connected. Your smartphones, your Wi Fi routers these days, tv box. Yeah. Your fridge, coffee machines, even. So, as well as it's great of having all these IoT devices around your house, it's also really important to understand that it's not just you who's got access to these devices. Mostly the application qualifications. I work in cybersecurity. I've done so for the last 15 years. So, yeah, absolutely. I mean, this is a completely kosher explanation. Well, it's just a common research that I've come across because you can see that it's plausible. And Tim, four hat at the same time, isn't it? Yeah, it's one of them, but, yeah. Next time you decide to install an application, just have a quick skim through that agreement. And just if it's asked me if it can have access to my microphone, then it's usually an app that I talk into sometimes, but you'd be surprised at some random app. That's really interesting. Can you tell the producer off air what the. What the worst offenders are? Because you don't want to say it. Why don't you want to say it on there? Don't say it until you tell me why you don't want to say it on there. I want to say it on there just because I'm in the industry. I don't want to put anybody flags out, but I will tell a producer offline. Okay, stay on the line. Eleanor, get this man's details. All right? Because, I mean, I've oddly, I'm quite relaxed about this. If I'm talking about. I quite like the fact that Facebook knows that I'm in the market for a new trampoline or an air fryer, but usually. Sorry, round of applause for re. Usually, I've already bought it by the time my feed fills up with adverts, which is just stupid, you've expressed an interest in something by buying it and then you get bombarded with adverts for it for the next six months. Mark's in Albury. Mark, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's an answer. Carry on Mark, the answer to the airport question. Oh, yes. So, in brief, before the three letter codes were adopted worldwide, each country had its own system. Canada used two letter codes based on the weather station that each airport had. So they named after the weather stations. And they all started with Y? No, they just used two letters. So VR, Vancouver, etcetera. So then they needed to turn it into a three letter one and Canada. So the question was actually slightly correct in that Canada was a later doctor. By the time they got round to it, most of the good letters are gone. What's a good letter apart from it? Well, the appropriate free letter codes are like VV. So the third letter. The third letter. The first letter. Yeah, the first letter. No, not the first letter, because you can have. There's more than one l? There's LHR and lax. Yeah. They couldn't have used, say, van, because that was being used for someone else. Vanuatu, probably. And so because yerevan was the only major airport starting with a y, they said, oh, we'll just use y. And so they just added y to all the two letter codes, turned into three letter codes. Qualifications? I worked in the travel trade for over 30 years, selling flights. And as a project at work, I was asked to load all 9200 airports into a new database. How long did that take? About two weeks. Good lord. What was your favorite? There's an airport in Alaska. Yeah. Code eek. It's actually called eek. Love it. I knew you'd have a favorite. Everyone always has a favorite. If you have to spend two weeks doing something, then somebody's going to stay with you, isn't it? You're going to have a favorite. Absolutely. It's lovely to speak to you again. We met in Walter Hampton. You signed my book. Oh, thank you, Mark. How kind of you to remember and indeed to have bought the book and come to. I enjoyed the Wolverhampton gig a lot. It was a lovely evening, wasn't it? Yeah. We talked about mental health. You were very appreciative. Well, thank you, Mark. Thank you for reminding me. And have a round of applause on me. Thank you very much. And stay safe. Take care. It's twelve. Okay. Squeezing one more, Keith, in upminster. Make it snappy. Okay, James, it depends on whether winter or summer to start with, because in the summer, the cloud base. Minimum. Cloud base. Oh, you gave it away because no one knew what you were talking about. I know you said clouds. I wanted to see how long you could carry on for without anybody being entirely clear about what answer you are actually providing. So how high is the average cloud in the winter, maybe 600 to 1000 in the summer, two to 3000 for the lowest ones. And they can go right up to kind of. Hello, I'm here. I'm listening to you, Keith. Obviously, I get told off for interrupting and then I get told off when I don't. It's not pleasing you people. Summertime. Summertime lowest is about two to 3000, maybe 5000 in a really hot summer day. Yeah, wintertime could be as low as 300 to 1000. And it varies a lot. Qualifications? I'm a former glider pilot, former powered pilot as well. And clouds are very important to glider pilots. Pilot in command. Thank you. Round of applause for clay. And I did my first solo in Cosford. In where? Cosford, which is not that far from Kidderminster. No, I believe I was going to say, well, ha'Penny Green is the big airport around us, but Cosford for gliders is it. Crossford is an RAF base, but I did my first solo flight there in 1980. Well played, Keith. You got yourself a round of applause as well. I'm spoilt for choice this week on favourites. I think I'm going to give it to. I'm going to give it to Mark. Who? I saw him. Was it Mark from that? I saw him, Wolverhampton. Who was it a minute ago? Yeah. Mark in Aldbry gets it this week. Well done, Mark. That's it for me for another day. We will be back tomorrow from ten. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player official LBC app, where you can also pause and rewind live radio. Download it now for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, Tom Swarbrick. But now, Sheila Fogarty.