Why are mushy pea tins smaller?

Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. It's almost like 05:00 on Fridays for Crackerjack. It's Thursday. It's twelve noon. It's mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you don't know how this works, stick around. You're in for a treat. I ordered. I usually guarantee a belly laugh between now and 01:00. I stopped doing that recently out of modesty, but I'm told that they have still been delivered, without fail, every single Thursday between twelve and one, at least one belly laugh. I don't guarantee it anymore, though, because there's so many people listening these days I couldn't afford the refunds. If you ask for your money back, the way it works is this. You ring in with a question zero 345-606-0973 on any subject you like. Actually, the bar is. Last couple of weeks it's been incredibly low. The bar is set quite low on what qualifies. It can be a very intellectual or scientific inquiry, but equally it can be something rather silly. In fact, there's a question in already. I rather like the look of involved, mushy peas. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you happen to know the answer, and you have to know the answer already. Okay? You can't look stuff up. That's the rule. I was. I went, I haven't really told you about what I did on Tuesday night. Sorry. I know you're not interested when it's mystery hour, but briefly, I went to see a speech by a chap called Sadguru, who is. He's got 2 million followers on Twitter. It gives you an indication of his popularity internationally. He's a sort of yogi, a thinker. And I didn't, oddly, one of those rare occasions where I've attended a public meeting and have resisted the urge to stick my hand in the air and make sure my own voice is heard because I'm a bit weird like that. And he was talking about how much the world is changing and he did that thing I've done with you when we talk about the calculator being taken into the exam and how for those of us who didn't routinely have calculators as kids, that seemed like cheating or it seemed wrong somehow, and then suddenly you realize, no, that's daft. And our children, of course, are growing up with search engines. They have a universe of information at their fingertips, and their children or indeed, possibly within very short term future, you're going to have automata and artificial intelligence on such a scale that you won't really need to know anything anymore. It'll all be there. It'll all be doable, findable. You won't need to teach it. I don't know. I mentioned that because it's an amazing book. An amazing book. An amazing speech. Sorry, I've only just started the book. And we're the opposite. We're swimming against the tides of history for 1 hour a week. The other 14 hours a week. We're pioneers. We're swimming against the tides of prejudice, reactionary politics and bigotry for 1 hour a week. We're swimming against the tides of modernity. We're harking back to the days of knowledge being book based or learned, rather than simply being at the behest of a search engine. So that means it's a very pompous and roundabout way of saying, don't ring in if you've looked something up. You can only ring in to answer a question if you already know it. And when I say, what are your qualifications? You don't have to say, I am the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton as one of our most regular contributors. Indeed is. You don't have to say that. You can say, I just saw it on telly last night, James. I saw it on QI, or I saw it on David Attenborough, or I saw it on mythbusters or saw it on blue Peter. Whatever it may be that counts, a qualification only in the context of the reason why you know what you just told us. Right. Are we clear? Just crack on, shall I? Yeah. Lawrence is in reading. Lawrence, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Lawrence, great honor to speak to you. Likewise, Lawrence. Thank you. You say, I'm sorry, I've got a question about mushy pea. I love you already. Yeah, I enjoy my sheep's. And I do wonder, when I go to buy them, why is it that they're in a smaller can compared to other can products? It's a very astute observation. And it's across the board as well, whether you're going for the own brand in a supermarket or whether you're splashing out a bit and going for the bachelors. Yes, this is true. I think I know the answer. I think you do as well. I definitely don't. I think you do. Yeah, sure. Yeah, I think so. When do you last have them? A few weeks ago, I'd say. Did you eat the whole tin? Yes. Oh, could you have eaten more? Yes, that's the reason I am actually running, because. Well, clearly, yes, I've made a bit of a. I've made a bit of a plum of myself on this little exchange, Lawrence, and it started so well, I thought it, because I have them and no one else eats them, so it's not like beans, where you've got to divvy them up with the kids, only I eat mushy peas. No one else ever wants any mushy. Well, that might be the reason why. It's a small. I don't know, but that's a rubbish answer. Portion control. I was kind of leaning towards. But that. But then that. Yeah, that discounts baked beans also, you would have thought this is sort of a standard can size. It seems to be, yeah. I love this question. And I'll tell you what, there could be a ray liotter on the way, because anybody who actually knows the answer to this question is presumably going to have had to have quite an intimate involvement in the production of tinned mushy peas at some point in the past, aren't they? You would have thought so, yes. Or we may never find out. There's a bit of a. You know, I was going to phone you, so I did a bit of research. Not on mushy peas, but I know sweet corn also comes in a different sized can as well. Yes, it does, but that, I think, is because nobody ever wants a whole can of sweet called freshness. People put a tin back in the fridge. You wouldn't do that with mushy peas. I think we might be heading towards an answer, but it's obviously not going to go definitive. You can buy big cans of sweet corn, actually, but most of the time you don't want that much. It'll be portion control. They'd have worked it out. But we need to hear it from someone who knows of what they spit. Have you ever made your own? Yeah, well, my wife did, actually, for my daughter. She's just starting to wean. Oh, lovely. Soaked them overnight and everything. Yeah, that's a treat. And did you know that they're not green? The tinned stuff has a food coloring in it because it's something to do. I think the EU might have been trying to outlook. I could have become a brexiter if this had gone ahead. They were trying to outlaw the food coloring that makes mushy peas green and they would actually just be a sort of grey sludge if it wasn't for the food. Coloring? Because I think I might have got that wrong. But anyway, your question is on the board, why do mushy peas come in a smaller tin than pretty much everything else? And you think, most obviously, of, um. I wonder if the answer is just Heinz. Actually, Heinz don't make mushy peas. They have a generic can for their 57 varieties, but they don't make mushy peas. So there's a smaller. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Tell you what, Lawrences are like buses. You wait years for one to come along and then suddenly there's two in a row. Lawrence is in Folkestone. Lawrence, question or answer? There's a question. James, carry on. Lawrence, number two. Okay, so when you're on the Thameslink trains, there's a digital screen and it shows all of the different carriages and they're all coloured differently, depending on how full they are. Yeah. So they can be green, yellow or red. And my question is, what's yellow? What's yellow? What's yellow? So I think that's standing room only. Oh, so the carriage is coloured? The seats aren't individually coloured? No, no, it's just the carriages on the screen. Right. So it's just a picture. Okay. And my question is, how do they detect how full each carriage is? I quite like that question. It's a bit geeky, but there's nothing wrong with that. Mystery has a bit geeky and it. I mean, I don't know. The Thameslink trains, I have never seen this in action, but that's fine. Is it? I'm just wondering if it's obvious. It's not reservations that they're doing, it's actual passengers present. No, I thought about that, but I don't think they reserve seats. I don't think it can. So you decide which carriage to head for, according to. So you don't go for a red one. That's chocka. Ideally, you want a green one because that means there's seats, but if there aren't any green ones, you go for a yellow because that means they're standing room only. Yeah, exactly. So I'm just wondering, how do they. How do they detect that? It's a good question, actually, especially the red ones, because I was going to say, maybe they've got sensors in the seats and it's a bit silly, obviously, but they wouldn't have sensors for people standing. People have gone through. I don't. Are you sure about this, Lawrence? You haven't dreamt it. You haven't imagined the whole thing. I think I was fully conscious. Okay, well, so in that case, the question stands. Thank you. Two great questions from two lawrences. Do you know, I'm getting so cocky now and there's so many people listening to the program. I toy with the idea of doing things like only taking calls from Lawrence. People called Lawrence for an hour, but it would backfire horribly. Sophie, for example, isn't called Lawrence, but she is in Stoke on Trent. Sophie, question or answer a question? Carry on. I would like to know how long it takes food that you eat to become fat or weight in your body. Are you on a diet? Yes. These questions fascinate me. I don't know that there's a. Obviously, it's not going to be the same for everybody because as we all know, some people can eat their own body weight in cheese and not put on a pound. And others of us only have to look at a slice of Stilton and you can feel it wobbling around your midriff all the time. So it's not going to be an objective algorithm. But generally speaking, if I eat something today, when would its fat content actually become fat on my body? Exactly. Yes, because I get weighed on a Monday night at the moment, so I'm quite careful about what I eat a couple of days before. But it's not just fat, mate. Cause you've also got the food inside you that's like jockeys. Yes, I know that. I know you. And then on a Monday night, after I've been weighed, then that's my treat night. So then I eat what I want because I've got a week to get rid of the weight again. I don't know that it works like that. You remind me of my friend Louise. My friend Louise when she was pregnant and she was one of the first of our friends to get pregnant. We went to stay with her and on the Friday night, she put away most of a bottle of wine. And so misses O'Brien had a little word with her and said, mate, you shouldn't be drinking like that when you're pregnant. And she said, no, it's all right, I'm allowed a glass a day. So I save it all up for the weekend. You said, no, no, no does not work like that. I love it. We'll find out for you. Although I don't know if we'll find out enough for you to change your actual eating habits. I'd love to know if I eat it now, when conceivably generally, would it actually be a fat deposit about my person. I know what you're thinking, James. I've seen your body. There's no fat on it anywhere. It's 1215. This is LBC 970 318 minutes after twelve is the time. The fellow I liked for the american presidency, just looking at the official announcement of Joe Biden's candidacy, is this Pete Butte geek. I don't know how even to pronounce it, which might be an obstacle, oddly, in these nice, simplistic times, but he's the mayor of South Bend, Indiana. Great sounding place. But most interestingly, he's a. He's an afghan veteran naval intelligence officer, and he's gay. He's married to another man. I mean, that sort of almost the anti Trump, isn't it? Someone who's actually not ducked out of military service, but somehow reserved the right to insult genuine military heroes like John McCain. And also isn't a massive bigot by didn't have actually been gay. That flows. You can have gay bigots, aren't you? But I like the look of him. Joe Biden, however, is a very interesting hat to be thrown into the ring, if memory serves, because I think, like me, you're probably wondering why I didn't run last time. I think his son died. I think his son, Beau Biden, died of brain cancer around the time he would have had to make his mind up. I could be wrong about that. And of course, if you are a student of bots, bigots and liars on social media, then people who are comfortable with a president who boasts about grabbing women by their genitals will be pretending to have a fit of the vapours about a presidential candidate who rather inappropriately sniffed women's hair, reportedly over the years. You decide what's worse. 1220 is the time. Back to mystery. Mushy peas, Thameslink trains and fat in your body. Take your pick. Lee is in Banstead. Lee, question or answer? Hi. It's a answer. Please carry on. Lee. Yes. So the trains themselves is an answer to the Thameslink train, and the carriages themselves have sensors on them, so when they're empty, they know how much they weigh. When somebody gets on, they've calculated the average weight of a person. For instance, they know someone's on board, 100 people on board, and it's based on an average weight. So if you had a sumo wrestling team on there, it could report as being full, while in fact, they were empty seats. Absolutely. Chose my word so carefully there. I didn't offend anybody with that, did I? Not at all. Not at all. Also, the mushy peasant. No, no, no. Only one, mate. I do apologize. We're very strict about this. Otherwise you spoil someone else's fun. What are your qualifications for that answer? I think I can guess. I am a train driver. Round of applause for Lee. So, it is just. It's a weight. It's an average. So if it's red, it means it's past that threshold. If it's yellow, it's on that threshold. And if it's green, it's so light, there must be empty seats. Well, basically, they've got 150 seats, for instance, on the train. Once the weight dictates it's around 150 people, it'll go red or yellow. And then when more people get on, then it will dictate the carriage is actually full. It also controls the air system, so the suspension adjusts as more people get on and off. And that's why you hear the wishing sound. Yes, yes, yes, yes. I got it. Wow. What a lovely answer. I had my time again. I always fancied being a train driver, Lee. Thank you. Deborah is in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. When you go to a restaurant and have a meal. Yes? When you pay for that food, why is it called a bill? Why not? But why? Yeah, why not? Afraid. Harry? I think that or Lawrence. Oh, I see. Well, you have a bill of fare, don't you? So a bill is a bill. I'm trying to think. Sometimes this works. Usually it doesn't. Deborah, I'm not going to lie to you. I keep you on the line. I indulge in a little bit of irrelevant banter, and then the answer sort of pops into my head. Well, I did try and work it out myself by saying, well, when you get a electricity bill or whatever, it goes to the billing address. Yeah. I tried to work it out that way, but then that didn't. But the same question applies in a restaurant. Well, it does. I mean, it's an electricity bill. Why is it called a bill? The billing address. The billing person you're being billed. So it's a verb originally. I'm billing you, but they're billing you, like direct. If you pay in a restaurant for a meal you've eaten, you're paying to their head office, where they do all the bills indirectly, through the little man that takes your money in the restaurant. So why is it a bill? A bill. Okay. Yeah, you're on the list. I like those. I like derivation. I feel I shouldn't. I feel I've let you down. I feel. I've let the listeners down. I've let Deborah down. But most of all, I've let myself down. I should have known the answer to this. No, no, no. You can never let yourself down. No, you can. I mean, crikey, just watching. You have let me down before, though. Steady on, Deborah. No, your. Your lovely book. Oh, that's out. That's. Yes. It's not on audio. It is. They might. I don't know what it is. I recorded it. We've been through Waterstones and they're saying it's not on audio. Audible. I think it's on. Or. I don't know. I need to check. They might have. Could you press pause? Because they might resurrect it. The paperbacks out in June. So we're trying to get rid of all the hardware we have. I mean, most of the hardbacks are completely sold out. Amazingly, after God knows how many rings. I've been trying to get it for my son. I'm not just saying this, but he's blind and he absolutely loved it. Well, look, send me an email and I'll send you a little link, all right? Promise me you'll do that. Thank you very much. Stay on the line for. Stay on the line to Beth. And I've got a code for audible that lets you have a freebie. So stay on the line and we'll sort that out before the end of the week. I promise you. She's gone now. Get her back. There she is. Fantastic. 1223 is the time. Simon is in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Oh, afternoon, James. Yeah, question. Carry on. And really just following up on the question last week about the two different ways of writing the digit four. Yeah, the end of the show. So I wasn't sure if that got resolved, but it led me to think why the number seven has a line through it sometimes. I know it's sort of a european thing. Stop it looking like a one. Is that right? Yeah. Okay. Sorry, mate. Strange way of buying a one, then. Well, not really if you're in a hurry. I mean, you remember a one usually has a little tail at the top if you look at most fonts and a base at the bottom. Yeah, can do. Okay, so that's definitive, then, you reckon? I think it's definitive in the sense that I think we've done it before, but sometimes when I reach for a definitive in order to satisfy my cravings for rounds of applause, I end up being embarrassed a little bit further down the line. But I think on this one, it is just to make it clear that it's a seven, because some people write their ones in a way that could be mistaken for sevens. And did the falls get resulted? You can't do it. We don't do retrospectives, mate. Oh, well, podcast. There's a podcast. You know, I can't. I know. I'm on it every Sunday morning. I can't be that. I think we got to the force. I think it was a similar answer, actually. Was it unresolved? Was it unresolved? Keith's on the case. Tell. We've got at least one professional working on the program. Round of applause for me. Lawrence is in Tottenham. Three. Three lawrences. We could be breaking world records here if it carries on like this. Question or answer, Lawrence. It's a question. Carry on. Yeah. So, yeah, obviously I had the two lawrences. I thought it was quite a bit of pressure. I am normally in Tottenham and I call in quite regularly. It's normally about quite morbid things such as knife crime and the lack of funding in local community areas, etcetera. But it's a pleasure to talk to you, James. And today I thought to just switch it up. I'm in Brighton half the week because we run youth programs here, and from about this time of year till about October, I have to accept that I am woken up at about four in the morning by seagulls. And you can't leave rubbish outside. And basically the whole town becomes completely overrun by seagulls. But come October, they literally vanish. They're not to be seen or heard for about four months in the winter. And I want to know specifically, where do they go in the winter? I know they go inland, but where inland? Because you never see them. Do they go inland? They do go inland. They do not go inland. I. Well, these. Okay, not like height, not like migrations. They go inland anyway for food. But that's not winter, presumably. Don't they fly somewhere else? They're not. They're not migrating to Africa, that's for sure. But they're certainly not on the coast. And there is. I have heard this question being thrown about before. You know, you sat a pub in brightness, kind of thing gets brought up. Of course there is. There. There is areas in land about four or 5 miles inland for them not to have the harsh. Well, in the UK. In the UK, get out of town, they desert the coast and they don't come inland. Well, this is this because, you know, we know about it. Everyone would know about it. It's not some mystery full of seagulls for four months of the year when no human sets foot. But. But they certainly don't hibernate and they don't. I know they don't hibernate. So where do they go? They migrate somewhere hot, like all birds do. Almost all birds. Seagulls. Have you ever been full of big Macs? Some seagulls are a little bit, well, upholstered, but generally speaking, they've got amazing metabolisms and if you go to North Berwick in the. In the. In the right period. I've talked about North Berwick a lot at the moment because I'm worried about scottish independence and the gannets there. On. On. I mean, and the puffins that. These seagulls, they're part of the gold family, so they migrate, mate. There's totally different levels of seagulls, though. I was in Weymouth not too long ago, and they're like real birds. They're like, if they come to peck you, you're running for your life in Seagull. They're sumo wrestlers. I mean, in Brighton. You mean the massive ones? They're herring goals. Full of Burger king. I'm telling you now, they migrate. They migrate. They migrate. But I'm putting it on the board, because you don't believe me. I want to know specifically. I heard it and I want to know where they are so I can go and wake them up in the winter. Yeah, well, good luck with that, because they do not go in. Hey, Lawrence, there's a clue in the name. Yeah, seagulls. Not. Sometimes seagulls, sometimes land gulls. Seagulls, pal seagulls. But all animals evolve and when they're full of McDonald's. You're obsessed with burgers, Lawrence. It doesn't matter, does it? They go. They go after food sources, but they're not going to chase burgers. Chase where the fish go. They migrate. I'm sure of it. But I've done that thing where I've condescended to a caller for having a question that I thought was simple. And history suggests I'll be eating humble pie very, very shortly. We will find out. Pat's in reading. Pat, question or answer? Hello, James. Good show, as per usual. Thank you, Pat. You're very kind. Mushy peas. That's my man. Unmashed peas take up more space than mushed ones. Yeah, that's why they go. The mushed ones go in a smaller can, mate. You're not having that, because if you buy a pat, you buy a tin of marrow fat peas. It's the same size as the mushy peas and they're not mushed. Yeah, but if you take the peas and mush them, they take up less space. Yeah, I know, but I'm saying they sell marrow fat peas in smaller tins as well. Well, maybe they do. Maybe they've had. And if I buy a tin of refried beans when I'm going a little bit Mexicano, that's big and that's mushed, it's the same size as an un mushed bean in a Heinz cat. Mate, I like the way you've been thinking about this, but this answer is not based on knowledge, it's based on speculation. No, no, no, it's based on knowledge. No, it's not. Well, if you've got round things and you smash them up, you can have that. I mean, if you smash something up, it will. It's got less volume. Often. Not necessarily, actually. Well, if you took a lot of eggs, for example, and smashed them up, they take out less space. Well, only if there was a lot of air in them, they wouldn't take up less spaces. You put a lot of eggs and there's spaces in between them. Yeah, but there's no spaces in between peas. There must be, because they're round. Oh, you mean the circular spaces. I saw something on telly last night about irrigation circles and the gaps in between them being important for wildlife, so you're right. But that's not why they're in smaller tins. You could get the same number of peas. Let's leave it now. They don't. The question is, refried beans are smashed up, mate, and they come in a full sized tin. Don't like those, though. Yeah, but that's not the point, Pat, is it? It's not about Pat's culinary enthusiasms, it's about the physics and the volume of pea and bean based tinned foods. I'm just basing it on round things. If they're smashed up, they take up less space. I'm not going to argue with you about that, but I'm not giving you a round of applause either. It's 1231. Thomas Watts has the headlines. Labour has called for a full. This is LBC. 1236 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. But it's mystery air, so things are a little different from usual. Why do tins of mushy peas come in much smaller portions than almost every other tinned food? Comparable tinned food I appreciate sweet corn and things like anchovies come in small tins, but mushy peas, you'd think would be like beans on the trains. Question how long after eating, if I were now, for example, to eat some cheese, when realistically could I expect new fat deposits to appear on my body if I wasn't such an Adonis and spending so much time at the gym, why do we call the bill a bill in a restaurant in particular? And where do seagulls go in winter? Zero. 345-606-0973 I thought I'd answer the seven question. No, we'll see. Nicholas is in Brighton. Apparently not Nicholas. Question or answer? Yeah, answer, mate. Carry on. It is the second question. Arabic numerals were originally written with straight lines. No, there were no curves, so each number had to represent the amount of angles contained within the number. So if you have a seven, like a slash, and then going down the way, when you put another slash across it, you've just added four more angles to the three existing. So you have seven angles within the number seven. And the same is true for all of them. So a three was actually a straight line. A straight line down to the center, a straight line back the way and then a straight line across at the bottom. So there's three angles. I've only got. I'm being stupid, mate. I've only got five angles on the seven. Even with a line through it. Um, it's to do with. I think it was. I can't remember because I'm trying to picture the actual numbers in my head at the moment I'm writing them down. So here's a seven. Here's a seven without a line through it. It's two lines. But it also had, also in the Arabic, it also had a line across the base. Ah. So that's two more angles. And then a line through it. Four more, you get a seven. So a 212-12-1212. And a one. A one has a one has no angles. An eight looked like an hourglass. Well, no, it does, because it has the little thing at the top. At the top, yeah, you're right. Only to one side. And a two has two because it doesn't have any things on it. And a 3123. And then a four, in that fashion. 123456. Mate. A four was literally like a triangle. Flag triangle on top of a stick. It didn't have. It didn't go right the way through, if you like. Or a four, which is like an l with a cross through the bottom has got four. Oh, no, that's got. Oh. A four is tricky. A four was a one. Two three out and in. And then one line going down. But the line going. Didn't cross over the line, if you know what I mean. I do. So what about a five, though? Why is a five not the same as a two? Because, again, it's. It's. It's square. So you go, you go starting right to left, you go across the top. Down. Yeah. Then across your right, down across to the bottom, and then back up slightly. So. So a two would have been like a z and a five would have been like an s. But all with straight lines. But all. All straight lines. I think this is like an hourglass. I think this. What? Yeah, of course it would. Yeah. And nine. A nine was like a box with a line going down the dash across the bottom, but then it had another little box on the end of that dash. And that's where your cursive nines have originated from. She's a brilliant. Obviously, they had to. First of all, go on. You need to have the angles. They had to incorporate the extra angles in order to be able to. This is one of my favorite answers ever, even though it involves me humiliatingly acknowledging that my own answer was pants. You can't know absolutely everything, mate. The first part of knowing anything at all is knowing you know nothing, said Aristotle. And Nicholas in Brighton, he did indeed. Qualifications? Qualifications, Nicholas. Hey, I'm an insomniac, so I spend my night studying everything from heliodynamics and solar physics to plasma, and there's nothing work. Does nothing work for the insomnia? Absolutely nothing legal works for the insomnia. Okay, I hear you, but have you tried. And I know how annoying it is when you're an insomniac and people say, have you tried chamomile tea? I'm not going to say, have you tried chamomile tea? Have you tried a heavy blanket? A special heavy blanket, actually, that sounds really comfortable. But no, I haven't. Look it up. What I've done is I've just grown used to the fact that maybe an hour a night, sometimes three, is good enough. And let's face it, it's all spare time that I can fill my brain with information, clearly using it. Construction numbers. I hear you. But if you do well, you go insane. And you're not lying there stressed, you're lying there just conscious of the fact that you're not going to go to sleep anytime soon. You're not worrying about. It's not. So I don't. So I don't even tend to lie there. What I'll do is I'll just get up and do something. Well, if you wanted to try something, I mean, the lazy thing I'd say is I learn poems, but that's the same as what you do, and I'm cool at the moment. I haven't had insomnia for years. But what a very, very close friend of mine discovered was that you can buy a special blanket that's got, like, weights in it, and if you get that across your chest, it really, really helps. It's that he'd had 20 years. It's funny you should say that, because I sleep best when my mini dachshund is asleep on my chest. Boom. They get a blanket, mate. Get one of these heavy. They're quite expensive. I don't know if you can get cheaper versions, but have a look into it if you're interested, and then let me know how you get on and I can pat myself on the back for changing your life. Cool. Well, I have to apologize as well. I've stopped reading your book temporarily because the CIA recently released what was a classified book by Doctor Chan, who worked for NASA. That's fair. The Adam and Eve story. That's fair enough. It's along the lines of Hapgood's work. Oh, really? Fascinating. I can see why you might have Gary decided that was more important than my little efforts. But I swear I'll get back, back to it as soon as I finish. Give him a round of applause. What a lovely answer. And he's right as well. I need to dig out the arabic numerals and then you'll see the angles. God, I love stuff like that. Nicholas, great work. Hope is in Edinburgh in so many ways. Hope, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Hey, it's a question. James. It's. John Stuart Mill's housemaid apparently burnt Thomas Carlyle's manuscript of the French Revolution and she had to write it all again. And, like, this is recorded in lots of books and stuff, but no one's said what happened to the girl who burnt it after she burnt it. And, like, I'm interested in knowing her story and couldn't find it anywhere in any of the books I looked at. I tell you what, I very, very, very much admire the faith that you have in mystery hour. Why has a seven got a line through it? I'm thinking, yeah, we can deal with that. What happened to John Stuart Mill's housemaid who burnt his copy of Thomas Carlyle's account of the French Revolution? That's a big ask. Yeah. No. Well, you know, I mean, nothing ventured, nothing gained. Hope. But please don't be too downcast if it turns out that the masked ranks of my listeners do not have the answer to this particular question. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Hope. I don't know. I hope someone does. I don't want to sound pessimistic, but goodness me, where do seagulls go in winter? Zero. 345-606-0973 what happened to John Stuart Mill's housemaid that burnt his copy of Thomas Casalel's account of the French Revolution? Why do mushy peas come in smaller tins? How long does food take to become fat in your body? And something else as well. But Bill. Yeah, the origin of Bill in a restaurant. 1243. Got time to answer all of these and possibly for a couple more questions, so don't hang around. Matt's in Bromley. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Matt. Yes, it's to the bill question. Where does the word bill come from? Yes, and it is from the french billet doux, which literally means a little note or a little love letter. Yes. And they used to print the bill that you received to give your money on the back of the menu, because a menu was a throwaway thing in the very, very early days. So they just tot it up in pen, in chalk or pencil on the back, and present it to you as a billet doux, not as a bill, because the menu would have been called the bill of fare. Well, maybe not back then. It wouldn't. Would it not? No. I mean, we're going back, you know, this is going back hundreds of years and they say. But, yeah, for belay do. They don't pronounce it belay do, Matt. They pronounce it. Call it a bill. No, it's a belly. Do you. So how does that get shown to billet? Because, as you well know, when you get into french translations in british, we like to. So what do the French call it? La decion. La decion, correct. So why do we. Why have we got an abbreviated version of the french words for love letter when the French just call it the total? Because we would have had troops in the first World War. You're not going to. You're just going to keep on batting, aren't you? You know, I'm not going to get anything past your guard on this, I think, on this particular one, because I do know the answer. Qualifications? I was trained in catering at the royal festival hall in London. And they told you this specifically, I asked one of the waiters, round of applause for Matt. I don't mean to close from a cold, dead hand, that one, Matthew Claw, wrenched from my cold, dead hand, that round of applause. But you deserve it for your. For your exuberant delivery. For as much as your confidence and knowledge. 1245 is the time. Where do seagulls go in winter? Why do mushy peas come in smaller tins and almost every other tin comparable and fat in your body? Is that it? Anything else? We'll find out. It's 1246, coming up at one on our with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. Mystery hour continues. Sort of steering relatively clear with Brexit at the moment. But a few of you have pointed out today there's an excellent piece in the Guardian by Martin Kettle about how, essentially, now you're looking at no deal come October or another vote, that is, no Brexit in the first instance. Just for the record, when I told you in July of last year that I couldn't really see how things were going to shake down without it being no deal or no Brexit, the kind of people who told me I was wrong, that there would be a great deal, and that I didn't know what I was talking about, are exactly the same people who are now claiming that they wanted no deal all along. Illustrative. It doesn't particularly prove anything, except that they're deluded and dishonest. But we knew that already. Again, I hope I'm wrong. I hope it does sort of come down to something else. But no deal versus no Brexit seems to be the way. The traffic is moving. Now back to mystery hour. Thank goodness. Lawrence's four. Four lawrences today. This has got to be a record. Does anyone keep a record of how many lawrences have phoned a single radio program in the space of an hour? Because if they do, dudes, we're going to go Guinness. Lawrence in Crawley. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. I'm afraid I heard the last explanation for the bill, and it's not in line with what I have been told and read in the past. And Bill, I believe, is named after William Pitt the younger, who was the youngest prime minister that Britain has had at the age of 24. And he introduced income tax, and income tax eventually rolled out as demands on bits of paper, became known after his name, William, as locally as a bill. Can you remember where you learned this? He was Earl of Chapman and lived in Warmer Castle, and there was an exhibition there about a year or two ago. And it specifically said that his christian name was the origin of the word bill. To describe a bill, a demand of income tax, originally, because he introduced it, he was the first one we got to thank for income tax. Yeah. I mean, then where does Bill of fare come from? Or bill stickers or billing as a verb? I mean, bill of fare, most obviously, I do not know about the bill in terms of. But I think in relation to what is an invoice, if you like, which a receipt is a different matter. Of course. A bill is an invoice and a demand, and it was first introduced in line with income tax in the UK. I don't think you're right. I'm so sorry, Lawrence. I don't think I'm going to withdraw the original, not without a better appeal to authority, because. Fair enough. I did check after we had the last caller on and he seems to be bang on the money. Fair enough. Sorry. Okay. No, I feel terrible now, but, um, next time I'll give you a round of applause. Where did you, um, check your. Your. Your reference? I looked it up. Oh, okay. I thought you weren't allowed to do that. You're not until after it's been answered correctly. Okay. And I felt his. His answer was very, very persuasive and I actually incorrigible. FCA tweeted me to say it was correct and he's not being wrong yet in the tweets that he sends me. And I'm looking now at William Pitt, the younger background, and I'm not seeing anything that supports your. Well, look it up in the income tax. You'll possibly find it in relation to that. I will. And if I owe you a stewards inquiry, I'll give you a retrospective round of applause. I promise you. I sometimes check stuff in the break when I'm just trying to educate myself rather than double check or cheat or anything like that. It's. Once something's been answered, I want to commit it to memory so that I can get a round of applause next time jazz is in Glasgow. Jazz. Question or answer? It's an answer to your seagull question. Where do they all go in winter, Jess? Well, I hope you're ready for a sliver of that humble pie you love so much. They do not go inland. They do. Not all of them. Not, but they do. They do. They stick to the coast in the summer because the weather's nice and the environment's lovely. But when the weather turns in the winter, the warmest places are inland where they're shielded from all that nonsense. Well, like where then? Well, literally just about 30 km away from the shore. Really? Not all gulls. UK broad. Not all gulls. So, like there are some gulls who will migrate for breeding because gulls are quite particularly. Seagulls are quite. Sight fidelity. What's the word for that? For what? They exhibit sight fidelity. So they'll go back to the same site. Fidelity is good enough for me. So. But then the original caller wanted to know where he could go to find a load of seagulls that weren't at the seaside anymore because it was winter and I'm not aware of any places like that. Well, if they want, you can come up to Glasgow because they roofed on the roof of my building and you can hear them from six in the morning, just getting ready. Foraging. Yeah, I know, but what months? So as soon as it hits winter. Qualification communications. I'm a zoology student and I'll be completing my exam on migration and behavioral ecology. You've rinsed me, mate. Absolutely rinsed me. I'm not even going to stoop so low as to suggest that you're not a zoology student at all. You've just made that up to humiliate me on my own radio program. Round of applause for jaz. Round of applause for jazz. Some girls do migrate all right. That's my desperate fig leaf. They do. Honest John's in Elton John. Question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on, John. It's to the question of what happened to John Stuart Mill's maid. Oh, mate, you do this, I'll give you the money myself. Go on. Well, nobody can give an absolutely definitive answer because that time is missing from John Stuart Mills diaries. But the diaries and letters do remain, and very good they are too, of Jane Wells, Carlyle Carlisle's wife. Oh. They were published in the late 1880s. And one of the principal things that she argues about in her diaries all the time is that she cannot keep servants. Pepys had problems in that department. Well, that's because Pepys couldn't keep his hands off his cell. Just checking your historical credentials there, John, and you have proven yourself up to the task. I'm sure people will be delighted. He lost one yesterday. Obviously not yesterday, but in his diaries. Yesterday, in the relevant years, she went back to Enfield because she didn't like it and he said he was pleased. But like you, I suspect that there may have been a little bit of Donald Trump star behavior in the background there. Yes, he would try to get her to comb his hair. So, Biden. So what do we learn? So he didn't. I mean, it's known that the maid burnt the. It's known that the maid burnt the first draft. Principally, it's because she had to get up. She was up at 04:00 in the morning, because what they basically had to do was to lay all the fires before they wetted down the carpet with cold tea leaves to get the dust off. Oh, listen. And scrub the front doorstep. Which is why the only person who ever knocked at a victorian door was the postman. And they always knew it was a postman because the postman was under strict instructions from victorian convention that he always knocked on the door twice. Postman always. Postman always wins twice. And then the maid went to the door to collect the mail. But Jane Carlyle couldn't keep a maid and they had two servants. She had a cog, she had the maid of all work and the maid of all work slept in the kitchen, because Jane. So we don't know what happened to the maid, because she couldn't hang on to her staff for love nor money. No, she probably left. She probably left and got another job. Jane says that the average time that she actually kept the job was between three and four weeks. So where does J's Mill come into it? Well, he was a very great friend of Carlyle. It wasn't his maid that burnt the first draft. No, it was. It was. It was Mill's made. Who burnt the purse draft? She was laying the fire and she needed kindling to get it, so he'd been given it by Carlisle to sort of proofread it or swat up. Exactly. And she. She burnt it. She burned it. But why would Jane Carlisle's inability to hang onto a maid explain where John Stuart Mill's maid went? Because they both came from about the same level of victorian gentry. Right, lower gentry or upper middle class as it was in those days. And it was a very constant problem among the lower middle classes, who'd all read that ghastly book by Misses Beaton, who said how you're supposed to look to treat your maids, which truly was very badly indeed, about one degree of social. Socio social class above what some of your maids were. In fact, this is one of my favorite mystery moments ever. I think I know the answer to my next question, but let's confirm. What are your qualifications? Publications. John? I used to be a history lecturer. I've now retired and I'm absolutely fascinated by victorian social history. So I read all the original letters I can lay my hands on about them. The diaries so, having read Jane Carlyle's letters, you know the problem here would be maid retention syndrome. I've got to give you a Ray Liotta. I'm not sure you know what it means, but it seems apposite. Do indeed. I think I've been listening to mystery House since you started it. Holy moly. You could almost do a history lecture on the other card quickly, because Tom's there now. Thank you, John. You're a legend. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. What a lovely moment. John. You're a star. I hope we can talk again. And speaking of experts, Sheila Fogarty's on holiday, so Tom sawbrick standing in for her. James, appreciate it. Thank you very much.