Salt and pepper?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, three minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC, which offers you an opportunity to achieve resolution, satisfaction, solution to some of life's little problems. It's not like an agony column or anything. Oh, there's an idea. But it is, however, a problem solver. If you've got a mystery that needs solving, ring in with the question. Hopefully somebody listening will know the answer. And lo and behold, two plus two and this program at least equals four. The number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 and the only real rule is don't be boring. I know what you're thinking, pot, kettle. But the bore bottom is in the ear of the beholder. And generally speaking, although we broke this rule this week, didn't we? If your question is about motoring or a related issue, then it is unlikely to set the world alight. I could be wrong. I often am. Well, occasionally. And today may well be one of those occasions. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Don't forget, there is also an opportunity to win a wonderful, brand spanking new edition of the mystery Hour board game. I think we're going to be releasing a. A booster pack. What are they called? A booster pack of more questions, given how many people enjoyed playing it over Christmas and want to play it even more. But you could win a copy, a version, a box of the mystery out, what's the word? And you could win a thingy of. What's the thingy in that sentence? It's not a copy. You win a copy of a book, what do you win? A what of a board game. Board game. You win a board game of the board game, you there could win a board game of the mystery hour board game if your contribution to the program today is according to my entirely arbitrary and independent. Independent thought process is my favorite. The full terms and conditions, I must read them. God knows what they say. The full terms and conditions are on LBC dot co dot UK. And you can get hold of a copy if you're not lucky enough to win one today. Not a copy. You can get hold of a board game of the board game if you're not lucky enough to win one today at mysteryhour dot co dot Uk. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Scott is in stoke on Trent. Scott, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. So if. If we are speaking to a foreign national. So someone from France or Germany, we can kind of detect which country they're from. From their accent? Yes. Can foreign nationals who are being spoken to in their language detect the same. So they could detect that we were English or someone was German and so on and so forth. How do you mean? So when. When would a French, when you were speaking French, would a french person know you were English? Yes. Or detect that someone who was German was speaking French, then they would detect that they were German? Well, yes and no. I mean, I don't know that there's going to be a definitive answer to this because it depends, I mean, if you think about. Do you speak any foreign languages yourself? No, not that double, but actually speaking. But you know that some people have got very good. I mean, when you do your GCSE's, some people have got very good accents and some people haven't. So, you know, some people will speak German. For example, I speak Greek with an impeccable greek accent. I don't know much Greek, but my accent is impeccable because all the Greek I do know I learn entirely by listening to greek people. Yeah, I suppose I'm basing the question on the kind of the stereotypical accents or the stereotypical French, German, Italian. You know, the ones that get lampooned, but they come from somewhere. So you mean like in Allo, hello with the undercover resistance officer in trying to speak. Well, again, there's not going to be a definitive answer unless I'm misunderstanding the question. It's going to be different depending on who you're talking to. Some people are going to pass, are going to sound completely convincing. They're going to sound like a parisian born french man. And other people who've got just as good French are going to sound like Geordie's. Come on, allez vous. Like. No, I don't disagree with that. I know that some people, obviously, they work and they've developed exactly. And Scandics generally have fantastic english accents, but there's always that little detection that you've got there, so. Okay, all right, well, I'll put it on the board. But I do honestly think you're going to get almost as many answers as there are polyglots as there are foreign language speakers. But I like it. I mean, is there any dead giveaway or can? Because in a way you're asking whether anyone can ever pass as being completely foreign, even though they're not, but by dint of how well they speak the language and the accent that they use. And I'm 99.9 recurring certain that they can, but we shall see. Scott, you're on the board. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to answer that question. A berm one from our lower low, isn't it? Ryan's in Brighton. Ryan, question or answer? We may never know. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. I'll just write down Scott's name. Lindsay is in Corby. Lindsey. Question or answer? Question please. James. Carry on. Lindsay. I just wondered as I have blown out a vast amount of them this morning, why do we blow out candles on a birthday cake and not anything else? Well, happy birthday first of all. Unless you were just indulging in a candle blowing fetish and it's not your birthday at all. But I presume it was maybe a bit of both. How many. How many candles were there? 49. You're one behind me then. And yet you actually had four. You didn't have 49 candles on you cake? Well no, because the fire brigade had probably so I mean many happy returns. And where did the tradition begin? I can't believe we've never had that before. Although given that I'm one year older than you, it's perfectly possible we have had it before and I've just forgotten. That seems to go increasingly with the territory. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. Happy birthday to Lindsay. Ethan is in Glasgow. Ethan, question or answer? Hello. Question, please. Carry on. When did organic food become a commodified product? Because I'm a bit younger than you and I. Steady on, carry on. I don't remember organic food being a thing growing up. Like you couldn't buy organic food as far as I remember. And then mid nineties maybe. I remember it was thinking about how you get organic tomatoes or. Yeah, I mean chronologically it's going to coincide roughly with the discovery of how bad pesticides were, isn't it? And what have you. And the increasing knowledge of. Scientific knowledge of what some of the additives and pesticides were doing to our food. Well presumably. Does that mean that nothing was. Nothing was ever grown organically before that point or. No, it would have been before pesticides kicked in. But you wouldn't have made a fuss about it being organic because everything was. No, true. But so like in 1982, nothing was nothing that you bought into too much. That's why I like the question. I like it a lot. I just. I mean I wonder if there is a sort of the first recorded incident of somebody marketing organic food. There must be, mustn't. There must be some sort of council that big companies got together and thought, yes, we can do this or not. It might have started very small. It might have started at the farm gate. It could have been, you know, and then grown from there. So when did organic food become a thing, is the question, really, isn't it? I like that question a lot. Thanks, Ethan. Nice one. Pleasure. Thank you. Cheers. Eleven minutes after twelve. I kind of think it happened while I was on air. Not like literally 11:20 on 14 June 2008 or something like that. But I think it happened while I've been doing this job, although I've been doing this job for so long now that most things did. John's in Bristol. John, question or answer? Hi, James question. How are you, John? How are you? I'm fine, mate. Well done for this morning's show. Thank you very much. You're very kind. Why do we consider horseshoes to be lucky? It's a very good question. I'm just going to pause briefly in the hope of an answer presenting itself to me, which occasionally occurs, as you know, John. But not on this occasion. No. I can give you the spiel about why you're supposed to put them sideways so the devil can't play in them. And if you put it upside down, the luck falls out, and if you put it like a u shape, the devil will play in it, so you put it on its side. But why is a horseshoe lucky? Yeah. I mean, I'm living proof that it is lucky. Go on, man. Yeah, seriously. In my first marriage. I've been married twice now. Oh, yes. In my first marriage, the ex mother in law threw the damn thing at me and I caught it. The vicar made her apologize and she came over and kissed me. I didn't turn into a frog and I didn't break out in a dreadful rash. Well, there you go. I don't know if that makes you lucky. I mean. What. Why did your mother in law throw a. Well, she didn't like me. At the church? Yeah. Just outside? Yeah. Just. Why was there a horseshoe present? Because it had ribbons on it and all the rest of it. Oh, it was like a good luck token. A good luck token. And a proper one, like, made of metal. It was a real one? Yeah. Yeah. It would have hurt you, wouldn't it? If. How long did the marriage. The unlucky thing is the horse, isn't it, stopping around? Well, that's a valid point. For every lucky horseshoe, there's a hobbling horse somewhere. How long did the marriage last after that rather inauspicious start? 20 years. Okay. And did the relations with the mother in law get any better over the decades? On and off. Yeah. On and off. On and off. Like the shoe. Cheers, John. Thank you. Why is a horseshoe lucky? When did organic food become a thing? The origins of blowing out, having birthday cake. Candles. Candles on your birthday cake. And can foreign people tell that you're English when you speak their language? Zero. 345-606-0973 John's in. Chancellor John, question or answer? Question, please carry on. John, what makes a british animal native to this country? As in, how long does it have to be in this country before it's classed as a native? I don't know if the second bit of the question helps the first bit. I don't know that you do ever become native. For example, a peacock. It doesn't matter how long a peacock has been here or a pheasant, they'll never be native because we'll always know that they were brought in, I think, in the 19th century or sooner, and the same with those crayfish. So there must just be a point where we kind of started listing animals and everything that got on the list back then is native and anything that's come in since then is not. I've bought a book. Yeah. Dangerous, these creatures. Yeah. It got these animals in here that aren't native to this country, but they're calling them british. Right. Have they got blue passports? Hope so. That seems to be the key signifier in this day and age. Yeah, but, I mean, it's british if it lives here, isn't it? Same with people. But is it indigenous? Is it part of the indigenous tribes of northern Europe? That's the animal equivalent, perhaps, of that question. I don't know. We'll find out what defines native in terms of wildlife. Zero. 345-606-0973 I was in Norfolk at the weekend and the. Oh, man, I love. I'm getting quite into my own astrology in my old age. And if you get to the coastline up in north Norfolk, some of the migrating birds that you see there, absolutely majestic, absolutely beautiful, but not native. Are they native? If they spend six months of the year here? It's a bit like having a place in Marbella, isn't it? And spending the winter months over there on the Costa 1215 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. I pronounced it wrong on purpose. Point of the gag. I said Marbella. Honestly, I don't know why I bother. And my apologies to Rebecca. You don't have to be old. She writes quite rightly. To be interested in all mythology. I'm only 30 and I'm an avid birdwatcher. Watch your mouth, O'Brien. Very strong. And a couple of people, Jason included, suggesting that gray squirrels have actually migrated from being non native to native. I don't know if that's true. Is a grey squirrel considered a native species? 18 after twelve? That's one of the questions on the list. What was the name of the fellow who asked the native species question? What? John. Thanks. You can tell we're live, can't you? Neil's in Farnham. Neil, question or answer? Question, please. James. Harry on Neil. Okay, well, first of all, thanks for the board game. My trace bought it for Christmas. I'm really enjoying it. Fantastic. My question is, how many people need to know an acronym before it's officially an acronym? No offense, but there's not like a rule. So when Jack Cousteau made up like scuba. Yeah? Did he just have to know it or did he have to tell half a dozen mates or ten mates, or when someone made up nonce or something of some prisoners made nonce up, were they just two of them? Yes. Don't know. Don't say it. It's not rude. Well, right. Don't worry. Don't say it anyway. Okay? Promise it's not rude. No, it's all right. I believe you. But I don't want to. I don't want to risk it. So I've made an acronym. Okay, go on, what is it? And I want to know how, if it's actually. Because so far it's only me that knows it. Oh, and is that an acronym? Well, yeah. I don't think there's like an international body of acronym certification. But you said that about the French Ibac. Actually, there is. It's called IBAC. The international body of acronym certification is called IBAC. I believe. I believe you're right. I think you've just made that up. I think you'll find you're right, but no, there's not. There's no. There's no official threshold for becoming a. An acronym. So if I tell you my acronym, will that then be. That is the real purpose of this call, isn't it, Neil? Probably, yeah. Go on then. What's your act? It's not. I mean, it's a family program and everything. You know that it is. Okay, so. So I get. I'm chiropractor. I get people coming in all the time saying they've got RSI. Yes. Which is. Which is actually an initialization. Correct. So there needs to be an acronym. So there was one called a world, which was a work related upper limb disorder, but I don't particularly like that one. Okay, so I now see lots of patients that are kind of sitting in awkward positions, holding iPads or whatever. Yeah. And I think there should be an app which is an acute, prolonged posture pain. Acute, prolonged posture pain. That's got three p's. Yes, an app. No, I know I'm not daft, but I don't know if it were. Acute, prolonged posture pain. I think. Well, yeah, all right. I mean, let's see. But we do what we did with the Earl of Dartmouth. You know the story of the Earl of Dartmouth? I do, yeah. He invented darts. He did invent darts, you see, and it took a while for that one to get halfway around the world before the truth has got his trousers on. But we shall see if app. It's not going to catch on there. I don't know how to break this to you, but app is already in common parlance in a different context. Okay, so my surname is Riley. Yes. So why don't we have a wrap? Riley's acute prong posture pain. Okay, let's. Could be a wrap. What? James, what about chiropractor Riley's acute prong fossil? Oh, here we go. We've got there in the end. Listen, if there is an answer to your question, will give you the money myself. Is there a point at which an acronym becomes official or enters into common parts? Because you can make one up. You know, what was Brino when Brexit in name only was a relatively recently coined acronym, wasn't it? Is that an acronym? Is that correct? Kind of. I think maybe. And Niels chiropractor, Riley's acute, prolonged posture pain. Very good. Caroline is in Glasgow. Caroline, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Caroline. So it's to the foreign whether you can have an accent in a foreign language. And the answer is yes. So you were right about that. Basically, it depends on what sounds already exist in your language versus the foreign language, and how the sounds you're used to making affect the way you would pronounce the sounds in the foreign language. For example, the french r is not the same r that we have in English. So you would obviously have an accent unless you learned it. For example, you said from, like, native speakers of Greek, that would affect it as well. Okay. Okay. So it would be harder to blend in, for want of a better phrase, if you like a very guttural language or an oriental language. So those kind of different noises that you make is what we're actually talking about, isn't it? And the more similar the noises are to your native language, the more convincing you will be authentic you will sound when speaking a foreign language. Yes, exactly. Yeah. For example, Chinese has four tones and we don't learn tones in English. So basically, the older you are, the harder it is to sound like a native speaker in Chinese because our brains just aren't. The plasticity changes over time. Beautiful explanation. There's not a definitive answer in that, yes or no, but that is the most knowledgeable answer we could have hoped to get. And it makes absolutely perfect sense. And people will be different. Some people will have peculiar facility for doing new noises, won't they? Even you mention age, but there will be some people of the same age who have a different aptitude for doing what we're describing. Absolutely. And you can take. So in very basic terms, you've got phonemes and you can take phonetics courses or accent loss courses. These are really popular in the english speaking world, but you have the ability as well to do that in other languages and kind of fix your accent a little bit. I did not know that. So you go. You mean you might speak it fluently, but you can go on a course to speak it with no accent or with a, with a, with a more native sounding or try to. Yeah, if you can. Yeah. Well, I never. Where are you from, if you don't mind me asking? Oh, I'm from Rhode island in the US. Okay. How long have you been in Glasgow? About five years. Okay, so you haven't picked up the accent yet? I haven't. My cat has. Whoa. What are your qualifications, Caroline? So my, my minor was in tesol ba in linguistics, and my master's dissertation was actually on the portrayal of french characters when the films were dubbed into French. So how the stereotypical french accent would change what they would do to change that. That's pretty strong, isn't it? I think so. That's a perfect qualification. I don't know that it's a ray Liotta moment, though. That's okay. Well, what do you think? I mean, we can all hope for a rey, but, you know. Yeah, exactly. I can't dish them out like confetti. They lose their value. If I start doing that. I understand. I will tell you for free that in the Little Mermaid, the stereotypical french chef. Yes. When that film was dubbed into French, they actually changed him to Italian. So he has a very stereotypical italian accent in French, of course, because it wouldn't work in a stereotypical french accent, in a French dubbed. But it wouldn't work. It wouldn't stand out as a cat character. Oh, that's lovely stuff. Have a round of applause, please. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Answer. And no, it was not. It's not. It's not a ray Liotta. Sorry, lads, it's just not. My word is final. Mary is. It might win a board game, though. It was a good enough answer for certainly to be in the frame for that. Mary is in Enfield. Mary, question or answer? Hello. It's a question. Carry on. So I was listening to Josh Widdicombe on one of his podcasts the other day and he was talking about food that was laid out before and after tv shows. Yes. And he called it a rider, kind of not a buffet. And I wondered why this was the case. And then later on, a few days later, I was listening to somewhere else and they used it as well. And before that time, I'd never heard the word before. It's not just the food. The rider is the thing that you insist on having in your dressing room or your green room. Okay? So it might include a sunbed or, you know. Famously, bands used to experiment with how ridiculous their requests could. Would get and see if they'd be fulfilled. So you'd insist on having a bowl full of only yellow M and Ms. I think that might have been Aerosmith or someone like that. So you want to know why it's called a rider? Yeah, why is it called a rider? It just. I couldn't make. I couldn't make it up in my head why you would call it that, especially now you've said it could be anything. Yeah. I'm on stage at the Leicester Square theatre on Monday and I've got to submit my rider later today. Yeah. What do you think I should put on it? Oh, God, lots and lots of. Yeah, I might get a couple of galaxies. A couple of galaxies. Oh, God, yeah. Galaxy. My favorite as well. It knocks a dairy milk. M and M cocked house minstrels. When I was pregnant, I just lived on minstrels. There's a different flavor. They're creamier than other chocolates. I've got a lot of time for a minstrel, Keith, are you writing all this down, mate? We want some minstrels. I might get some of those quite like those innocent smoothies. I might get a mango. No, that's not going to go with the minstrels, is it? It's not going to go with the minstrels. Well, anyway, that actually does go quite well, that sort of sweet and salty combination. Don't forget to ask Keir Starmer what he wants as well, because, you know, he'll be. He'll be in the dressing room over the way. Mary, I shall try and find out for you. Why is a rider called a Ryder 1227 is the time Matt is in Guildford. Matt, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Why do we season salt and pepper? That is. Why is salt and pepper a thing? I don't know whether or not the standard. No offense to you, it's a sort of. It's an oblique criticism of my colleagues there, but they're putting through a lot of questions that don't have answers, really. When does an acronym become official? And what was the. You were quite mean to me last time, and don't say, that's fine. It's fine, my king. Stephen question is perfectly reasonable. But I understand your skepticism, your criticism. Why not salt and paprika or. Well, it is, you see, in other countries it is. But when you say seasoning, it's a general term, and seasoning surely would mean if I said to you how well seasoned it you would. You would say it would in this country. But not in Japan. I wouldn't in Japan, would I not? Or Thailand, or Laos. How about Europe and the western countries then? Salt and pepper. Salt. I mean, salt's a flavor enhancer. That's a biological fact. Right? Pepper disguises the taste. I don't know, really. Why do we. I mean. All right, I'll ask the question. Matt, I appreciate it. I thank you for your time. No, well, thank you as well. And I'm sorry if I seemed a little brusque with you. It was not you. It was the quality control that I was questioning, not the contributor. 29 minutes after twelve is the. Paul is in Chelmsford. Paul, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Yeah, love the show. I'm an outdoor cooking enthusiast and I was lucky enough to be gifted a pizza oven this Christmas by my amazing wife. Lovely. It's a gas powered pizza oven and the instructions on it are strictly not to be used indoor. Right. But I'm wondering why it is I can use my six burner gas hob indoors, but not this little pizza oven when it's burning the same gas. Effectively, yeah. I mean, it may be that you can. I mean, I obviously don't try this at home, but it may be that you can. It's just sort of erring on the side of caution rather than. I'm wondering, is that it or is it to do or is it a different type of gas? It's the same kind of gas that you see hooked up to caravans and the like. You know, those little bottles. Yeah. I mean, it could be the size of the flame, maybe. That's. I would love to know because I'm able to do it. You're very politely saying, James, stop trying to dream up answers and get on with the business of finding someone who actually knows. Very diplomatically done, Paul. I shall do my best for you. Why can't Paul use his pizza oven indoors when he's got a six ring gas hob? That's a lot of rings on a hob. A little bit. Alan Partridge there. 12:30 is the time. Tim Humphrey is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 34 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC where the questions currently in need of answers include, what's the origins of candles on a birthday cake? When did organic food become a thing? Why are horseshoes lucky? When does a species become. What makes a species native? Can something become native? Is there a limit? You understand the acronym question? No. What's the origin of riders? Backstage riders? Where does the word come from? Why salt and pepper? Why do we season with salt and pepper and not other things? And why can't Paul use his pizza oven indoors? Tim's in leatherhead. Tim, question or answer? Got an answer? I might even have two answers. You're only allowed the one that you have told the producer. Let's go for the complicated one, then. Organic food. Oh, yes. Reasonable to assume that you can only have organic food from organic farming. Yes. It's a bit like the. What came first, the organic chicken or the organic egg. Yes. And if you go back far enough, all farming originally, or the definition of organic farming is using little or no or artificially produced herbicides or fertilizers. Yes. So if you go back far enough, sort of five, 6000 years, all farming was organic and therefore food was organic. Yes. The question is, when did it become a sort of marketed commodity in the UK? The soil association. That's the one which is a sort of association of organic farmers, was formed in the 19, probably end of the war, 1945, probably. Nobody was. It was. I used to be an organic farmer and all I remember was it was sort of in that period after. Okay. But, I mean, I don't remember buying organic food until probably. Well, that's the question. The question is, when did organic food on shelves become a thing? You see, as a farmer, I started receiving subsidies for converting my farm to organic in 1983. That sounds about right. There's a good start date. Yeah. But it's not going to be definitive, is it? Cheers, though, Tim, you've kicked things off nicely. Charles is in Birmingham. Charles, question or answer? I've got an answer, James, carry on. I'll be the judge of that. It's with regards to native species, so there's not an exact date, but it's usually the range of time is between eight to 10,000 years ago. And this coincides with the last glaciation in north and western Europe. So any species before then or during the phase, that phase of glaciation that came into Britain would be classified as native. But as the ice age began to recede, the waters then formed the English Channel, which then provided the cut off for any other species migrating naturally over the european land bridge to Britain. So it's between eight to 10,000 years geologically. How do you know, then? Because we didn't have studies and stuff until relatively reasonably. 19th century, really, isn't it that naturalism became a thing, or maybe earlier, but certainly not 8000 years ago? So a lot of it's to do with the dating of rocks. So specifically things like sand and gravel was where we can actually do things like radiocarbon dating to measure when they were deposited at a certain specific time and also measure measure fluctuations in sea level. But that's why it would always be quite a vast range. You couldn't give, like a specific date. So nothing can. Nothing becomes native. Then some people suggested the gray squirrel has become native. There's not a threshold above which, in terms of either quantity or length of time that you could. Claims a species has become native. Yeah. So you could. The best way to look at it is that non native species are those predominantly introduced into new new regions by human activity. So when humans arrived in Britain, estimated around 8000 years ago, all species that colonized our land predominantly came during that period, whether it was on people, actually, people carrying it or equipment. So non native species arrive predominantly from human introduction. But obviously some of our land masses have been, you know, obviously plate tectonics and things change over time, but there are areas where species have lived for significant amounts of time. Yeah. Which you could argue is native. But for UK specific, we would classify it from a scientific perspective that it was all of those species that were on the island before the channel developed. Blimey. Who'd have thunk. It makes sense when you put it like that. Qualifications. I'm an environmental scientist, but I lead a big project on invasive species in the UK. Do you? Yeah, across canals and rivers. Crayfish, isn't it? Those flipping crayfish must drive you. Mine is mainly focused on invasive plants. Oh, is it for specific species that we're trying to eradicate across the midlands? Like what? Well, japanese knotweed is the number one of the top 100 invasive plants, but on our canals, we have issues with species like floating pennywort from the Americas, or water fern as well, which is another aquatic plant that causes a lot of problems for our sort of native fish and native aquatic life, as well as reptiles. Lovely job. I bet that's fun, isn't it? I bet that's a sort of. Is that your hobby as well? I mean, your field of interest you've managed to turn into your work, or your work has become your field of interest? Yeah. So I studied physical geography and environmental science and then I branched into sort of water quality and I've gone into invasive species as well. Now, two roles. Well, and you've just won a round of applause on mystery. Really lovely answer. Thank you, mate. Take care. Simon's in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. And what is the red in red Leicester cheese? It's not really red, is it? It's like a deep orangey color. Don't you think it's more of a deep orangey color than a red? Yeah, sure. Yeah. But what word is it? It's called red Leicester. No, I know. Why? Where does the red come from? Yeah. I don't know. It's a nice question. I like a bit of red Leicester, actually. Just said cheddar and red Leicester on toast mixed together. Yeah. Oh, I mean, it's bold. Jamie Oliver. Yeah. On the quiet. I shall try and find out for you. It's a lovely question. 1241. I'm hungry now. 1241 is the time. And you are listening to mystery out on LBC with me, James O'Brien. We've got the red Leicester, the pizza oven, the salt and pepper, the Ryder, the horseshoe, the organic food and the birthday cakes. Javaria. Javaria is in Croydon. Javaria. Javaria. Question or answer? Javaria. Javeria. Question or answer? Yes. Sorry. So I'm a bit nervous. I've been listening to you since 2008. You're like a hero to me. Absolutely love you and your show, honestly. And I've always been nervous to call. Flattery will get you everywhere. Have a mystery. Carry on then. Thank you, that's so kind. Okay, so just regarding the birthday cakes and the candle, so it goes back to paganism. Oh yeah, yeah. So pagans worship the moon. So traditionally the cake would be round which symbolizes the moon. And then as you're blowing the candles, you make a wish with the belief that the smoke from the candle is going to go up to the moon and your wish will be granted. So that's from my research that I've done. What I found out also, just add to that, because I found this subject quite interesting. So what pagans also believed is that when it was your birthday, there was evil spirits that were out to get you. Right? So in order to show the evil spirits that the person is loved and cherished in the community, they would then have a gathering, which is now the party. Well, and also. Yeah, and that's why the presents are given as well. So that would deter their spirits from. Where did, why did you under, I mean, what are your qualifications means? Like where did you, why did you find all this out? I found all this out because some of my family are from the muslim background. They were, they do not celebrate birthdays. And I wanted to know, yeah, I wanted to know why, like what the bases were, because I'd have like these discussions with people and because they've got pagan roots years ago. Yes, because it was pagan roots. And I know that other religions also do not celebrate birthdays. So, yes, that was lovely answer. That's perfect. It's won you a mystery. Our round of applause. Thank you. How about that? Thanks, Javaria. Thank you for the kind words as well. My friend Gary's been listening, I think even longer than you have. And he rang in from Ibiza. He's reminded me to ask that very, very question and we didn't get an answer for him. So there you go, better late than never, Gary. And also I said, I can't believe we've never had that before. But then I'm getting so old, it's perfectly possible I've forgotten. And not only had I forgotten, I'd forgotten that I'm now friends with the bloke who asked it. Like I said, Swiss. Nevermind, read Leicester. My memory is like swiss cheese. It's coming up to 1245 Rob's in Cheltenham. Rob, question or answer? That's an answer. Carry on, Rob, to the horseshoe question. Oh yes, it's considered lucky because blacksmiths are considered lucky because they used to deal with fire and okay to make the horseshoes. And it, uh, it wards off the devil. Okay. Why does it ward. Do we know why it wards off the devil? I don't know. I don't know. I. The person who told me was my father about 50 years ago. What were his qualifications? Well, we had. We had horseshoes all over the front door, all around the house. Oh, yeah. And my father's great grandfather, my great grandfather, great grandfather, blacksmith. So he would never take them down. And I don't know what my grandfather did, but he must. House must have been in the. For three generations. We own the house. So he had it as a. I think it's a mechanic. And my father had it as a mechanic in a petrol. And that's why they're in doorways, isn't it? To repel evil, repel the devil. I think some. Emma tells me that some traditions have the demons being unable to bear the touch of cold iron, so that might have something to do with it as well. Oh, I can't remember that. I know they're still. They're still there now because it's actually a restaurant now. And your old childhood home is now a restaurant? Yeah. It's called the forge. And I went there maybe about two years ago and the horses are still there. Really? What was the food like? Very good. Yeah. Is that in Cheltenham, then, is it, or. No, it's on the a 38 in Whitminster. Oh, you live in lawn. Would you like a round of applause, Rob, for that. Brought you luck today, didn't it? Your horseshoe, novice. Thank you, mate. Lovely stuff. 1245, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time and we're making news. Not for the first time, and I'm sure not for the last time. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police Federation has taken issue with Sadiq Khan's comments earlier on the program. Here is their statement. The metropolitan police Federation were bemused and a bit confused to hear the mayor of London on LBC this morning claim that we haven't spoken to him or his office to arrange a meeting. Secretary are meeting him on Monday. Good to know you're tuning in. Perhaps you could get in touch with sue in Ellesmere Port and give her a little bit of help dealing with the fallout from one of your members conduct towards her. 1250 is the time. Michael is in Maidenhead. Michael, what would you like to say? Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. A queen's council is a barrister appointed by the queen. When the monarch dies, do they automatically come? King's counsel. If the next monarch is a king or do they have to be reappointed? They don't have to be reappointed. What I don't know is if they continue to be called QCs or do they all the ones who have already been appointed become cases? That was my question. Right, yeah. Yeah. It's a good question that I don't know. It's the short answer. It's so long since it happened, isn't it? So, yeah. Yeah. Another subsidiary question was where any king's counselor are any king's council live still around to the queen becoming monarch? 75 years and counting in the job? It seems unlikely, doesn't it? But, you know, you never know. Some like some old rumple scooting around the Old Bailey. I like that question, Michael. Thank you. Does when. When Charles is crowned, do all QC's suddenly become Casey's or do they stay QC's? It's just the new ones who'll be KCS zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need the need answers to the salt and pepper and the red Leicester questions if we're going to go and clear the board on this one. Simon's in Home Bay. Simon, question or answer? Yeah, I got an answer. Carry on, Simon. It's the rider question. So when a musician draws up a contract with a venue, the rider gets tacked on afterwards, never part of the contract. So it's something that rides the original agreement, which is where the origin of the word is, and that would apply to all contracts. It's just entered into common parlance because it's most known about and most associated with sort of backstage requirements added onto the contract. It was Van Halen, apparently, that did the M and MS with the Brown M and Ms, because they figured that if a venue couldn't be trusted to do something like that, then they possibly wouldn't be that good at dealing with all the dangerous electronics and other requirements of a big. Of a big show, I am told. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but I miss attributed the anecdote to Aerosmith. What are your qualifications, Simon, ex touring musician. Who did you tour with, if you don't mind me asking? I toured with a guy called Bernie Torme and Bernie was one of Ozzy Osbourne's guitarists. Fantastic. We took to the UK a few times and a lot of fun when it was. Did you engage in any ridiculous riders in your time? No, no, we were purely. You stand the sandwich in Guinness nonsense, really. Although Bernie did like the East Indian Guinness, which often would get missed. I think a lot of the reasons that the rider is sometimes the ridiculous ideas go through. Yes. It's just to see how much attention is being paid to the actual rider itself. Yeah, that makes sense, doesn't it? That makes sense. Round of applause for Simon. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1253 is the time Rob is in Manchester. Rob, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Rob. All right, so it's the pizza oven question. Why can't Paul not use his pizza oven indoors? Yeah, exactly, yes. It's to do with the jets on the burner at the back. They're set up so they let less oxygen in, which creates a yellow rolling flame that kind of goes over the pizza. And the top of the oven creates a bit of light in there so you can see what you're doing, whereas your burner in your kitchen is blue and really hot, so you're getting a lot more carbon monoxide coming off your pizza oven. Okay, that'll do, yeah. Qualification? I'm a pizza chef. Are you? Yeah. A pizzaiola. A pizzaiolo, yeah. What's your. I mean, do you. Have you come up with one of your own? Do you have a signature pizza, Rob? Um, yeah, it's, um. It's a garlic white base with, um, spinach, sun dried tomatoes and butternut squash. Like a really posh garlic bread. It's super good. That sounds really nice. Where do you work? I mean, you don't have to tell me. I'm just curious. I've got a little pizzeria up in Manchester called pizza revolution pizza. Whereabouts in Manchester is it? Wally range. Just Brooks bar junction on the way down into Charlton. Wally range? Well, I used to live in Charlton. Used to live on Keppel Road, where the bee gees grew up. Indeed. It's a small world. Round of applause for Rob from pizza revolution in Wally Range. Top man. There you go. Chris is in Harlem. Chris, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's in relation to the question about QC's. The answer is that the title of QC, KC, comes with the sex of the monarch. And as soon as the particular monarch dies and it's a new gender, the silk follows the same title. So when Charles ascends to the throne, all QCs will become known as KCs. There you go. Qualifications? Barrister. But not a QC. Not a QC. Not yet. Chris is the answer to that question. Not yet. Round of applause. Lovely answer. Thank you. They'll have to get all their business cards done again and all those that's a nice little opportunity for stationers there. Did I really see the MP for Dover saying that Brexit was good for Dover because so many people had had to be hired to deal with all the red tape? Or did I imagine that? I don't know. But anyway, there you go. Nice business opportunity for stationers on the horizon, 1255, hopefully later rather than sooner. Stephen's in Paisley. Stephen, question or answer? Excellent answer, James, carry on. It's salt and pepper. Yes. So basically it harks back to when Venice was at its height of power and the trade routes that came with it and gave it its riches. So all the venetian big players, all the big families, they brought back lots of stuff across the silk road from places like India and as far afield as China, including salt and pepper. These were new and massively valuable to all the european royal families because they added flavour to food. I mean, it's pretty obvious, isn't it, for the same reason that we still like them now, that. And basically they were a sign of these people's wealth because the common person couldn't get them. And that has basically fed through to today's society. So as they became more readily available throughout generations, the less wealthy among society to get them, and it was a status symbol. If you could put salt and pepper on your table, you were better than the next few quid. What are your qualifications? How do you know this? It's a lovely answer. I'm a food lover and a bit of a geek who watches the likes of Rick Stein's Istanbul, the Venice program. And it kind of popped up on that, did it? Well, it's funny, it was actually on last night, of all things, because we were talking about. There was basically a ministry salt, or Sally, as they call it. And that's where the word salary comes from. Yeah, lovely stuff. Round of applause for Stephen. Fascinating answer. Big fan of Rick Stein and indeed his boy Jack, who is no doubt listening. I think he is most days. Paula's in Tunbridge Wells. Paula, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Okay, the pigments for red Leicester is. It's a pigment that they put the name red Leicester comes from the actual cattle that is used. And the red Leicester cattle, they have a very hard milk, and the pigment that is added to that milk to make it a dark orange cooler is called Annetto Ann Att. Just one, Annette. Oh, yes, it is. And you can be allergic to that, can't you? You can indeed, yes. Lucy tweeted me, but I don't take answers by a tweet. But I'm not going to claim that I knew that. What are your qualifications? I'm a farmer. There you go. So they add it. The condiment derived from the seeds of the acciot tree. Did you know that? That's right, I do know. Everyone does now. Round of applause. Well, I just read it, you know, but anyway, recycled. Sounded convincing. Sounded good, didn't it? Sounded good. Round of applause for Paula. Thank you. And you. Take care. Back. I think she was ringing from the farm. Ian's in Bristol. Question or answer? It's an answer. Can you hear me okay? Yes, loud and clear. But we're short of time, so crack on. Okay. It's called a rider, actually, because something that was always sent ahead in medieval times from one castle to another castle, basically, to prepare the exact sort of things that the visiting dignitary, I think it's a clause that's added to a contract, is called a rider. Not for that reason, though. Oh, well, no, this is where it originally comes from. And I think I was told that when I ran a venue in Bristol for a week, one only one week, whereby we got all this sort of stuff that came through from a few bands which said that we had to cook meals, this, that and the other. Okay. I mean, I don't know if it's a. If it's a stewards inquiry or whether both of those answers can. Can coexist happily, but I shall give you a round of applause. Your qualifications were clearly running that venue, and I think the winner is going to be Caroline with the answer to the question about accents. I just found that was such an intriguing solution to the mystery. But I think we did everything today, did we? No, we didn't get the organic food thing in the end. Never mind. That's it for me for another day. Up next, Sheila Fogarty.