Where have all the kippers gone?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. And it is five minutes after twelve. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial is upon us already. And as has often been the case in recent months, it's particularly welcome, isn't it, the idea of an hour of light relief. If you're not familiar with this feature, then I think you're in for a rather pleasant surprise. If you are familiar with this feature, then you know exactly what to expect. All I would remind you of is this. The best contribution to mystery hour this week wins a mystery hour board game. And with Christmas approaching ever quicker, the idea of having that under your tree this year as a gift, essentially to yourself, should be almost irresistible. Of course, you can buy your own copy at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK and the full terms and conditions for the competition are available at LBC is the number that you need if you have a question that needs asking, or indeed, if somebody else asks a question to which you happen to know the answer. There's no real criteria on this. When people are new to it, they're always slightly surprising when, or rather surprised when they realize the full range of questions. You can ask something completely ridiculous or something really very serious, something that deserves or demands really high levels of quite specialist knowledge, or something that you might be able to answer simply because you were watching telly last night and it popped up. But enough, really. We'll just crack straight on and you can find out for yourself in the most obvious and easy of ways. I've got a sort of weird sense that I've forgotten something, but Keith's not twittering in my ear. So I'm fairly confident that we've covered most of the bases and we'll crack on the proof of the pudding, as ever will be in the eating. Seven minutes after twelve. Let mystery hour commence. Tom is impressed. And Tom, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. And question, please. Yes. Right. Not on the radio, it just sounds weird. Right, so my question is, when you make a cup of tea or a coffee, why can you taste the difference when you boiled the kettle for a second time? Now, I can slightly taste it, some friends can taste it and other friends can't taste the difference. But I'm also the sort of person that can't tell the difference between diet and full fat fizzy pop, can you? Not really. It gives you a weird coating on your tongue. I find the diet stuff. So you boil. You boil the kettle, you make a cup of tea. You have a cup of tea and then you boil the kettle again and have it a second cup of tea and it will taste, to some people, noticeably different. It doesn't actually sound that unlikely, does it? Because something happens that first time when you bowl. Something happens to the water and it's been discussed at work a few times and things like that. And I thought, you know what? I know someone that will know, or know someone that does know. I'll know. I probably know a man who knows, but I don't know myself. Something to do with the change. Would there be a chemical change up? Because it's distilled, isn't it? It's boiled, it's distilled. Is it going to be softer? It's got rid of some impurity, something. I don't know. We shall find out with coffee. It'd be less. Well, I don't know. We'll find out. I had. I won't bore you with the details of my beverage schedule. Thank you, Tom. Why does boiled water taste different twice? Boiled water taste different from one spoiled water. John's in Birmingham. John, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on. John, where have all the kippers gone? I think they've joined that new party, haven't they? I'm talking real kippers. I'm talking herrings that have been smoked, usually caught in the North Sea and available in supermarkets across this great country. But somehow, over the last 18 months or so, I've noticed a significant drop in availability to the point where only about 75% of. While 25% of the supermarkets I visit sometimes stock them, 75% don't. And bearing in mind that the government are currently saying and have done for some time, that oily fish is part of a healthy diet and should be consumed twice a week, which I think it's a question, it's a mystery. It has serious repercussions. Absolutely. When you. When you encounter a supermarket that has no kippers, are they temporarily out of stock or are they no longer on sale? I acquired at a middle range supermarket just last week. Like a Sainsbury. Is that middle range, you mean? Not like a wait shows, but not like a living? You're right, it was that very store. And the manager, the senior manager said, I. I'll have a look on the system. And he took out a handheld computer and he said, out of stock at suppliers. Oh, this is quite interesting, isn't it? And you think it's been going on for as long as 18 months? Has it gone off a cliff or has there been a slow decline? Did we go from 100% to 25% or did we go to 100 to 90 to 80 to 70 and so on? It's been gradual. But worrying, possibly people don't want kippers. I mean. But then those. God forbid. What's quite partial to an arbroath? Smokey? Myself, I like. I like oily fish. I like mackerel. But I'd haven't. I don't know that I'm a kick. So it's usually for breakfast, isn't it, a kipper? I am. I often have them for an evening meal and I have them with lava bread made from seaweed from South Wales. I like that. It's a wonderful combination of. I can believe that, actually. Omega three and iron. It's so good for one. And are you still. Are you still getting kippers? I mean, are you getting enough? Even though it's harder to catch them, find them. I'm having to travel up to seven. I'm having to go to certain coal field. Good God. I live in Birmingham. Good God. Sudden coal field for your kippers. This is absolutely. This is a stuff of nightmares. It's a ten mile return journey. I know it is. I know it is. It's ecologically unsound. Well, it is. It is. Well, we will find out. Possibly there are shortages in the North Sea. Who knows, John? I shall do. I'm absolutely intrigued now by this. I hope your numbers are correct. But we shall. Many people, including David and Edinburgh, pointing out it does sound indeed as if there is something fishy going on. Thank you, John. And thank you, David. Ed Zin Watford. Ed, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. This is either really stupid or quite thought provoking. I can't really decide, so welcome to my world. If I put the corner of a sponge into water, the water goes up into the sponge and the sponge absorbs it. But that seems to be defying the laws of gravity. Oh, not really. Gravity is nowhere near as strong as you think it is. But water's going up and nothing's sucking it up and nothing's pushing it up. Well, it is. It is. It's being absorbed. I think the process of absorption is akin to sucking. Is it is the sponge. There's no action. The sponge isn't sucking the water out. If you put a sponge in water, then it gets absorbed. But if you just put the tip of the sponge in, the water goes up. Yeah, but it's being sucked up by what, by the sponge? By the. By the absorb. Absorb. Absorptive qualities of the sponge. Yeah. I'm not convinced. I can't. What do you think it is? Magic? Well, that's why I said it might be stupid. I don't know. But it's definitely. There's nothing. There's no. It's not like a syringe where you're sucking it up, it's. It's just going up into the sponge. Nothing but a syringe is using a different. That's kinetic energy. So. No, I lost it there, didn't I? I was doing quite well. But then I reached for too clever a sounding theory that. Because what, what kind of energy is drawing the water up in the spongeBob? I mean, I can see if you squeeze the sponge and put it in and then unsqueeze the sponge, then of course it's going to suck in. But just put the. The tip of a sponge or a sugar cube even. Or a biscuit. Or a biscuit. Yeah. And it all goes up. So I can't figure that out. Fair enough. Fair enough. I. Whatever the answer is, it's not a stupid question. I'll take that. Very well. This is all I've got. Thank you, Ed. What? Why? Why when? Yeah, okay, I do get that. I don't think it's. I don't think it's a gravitational conundrum, but it is a physically interesting question. How come water goes upwards when you are dunking a biscuit or dipping a sponge? Or indeed sort of, you know, moistening a sugar cube? Mark is in Hatfield. Mark, question or answer? Hi, James. That's a question. Please hurry on. I was listening to Brian Cox the other day talking about the origins of the universe and the elements and how they were formed. And I wondered whether there were any other chemical elements in the universe that we don't have on our planet. You mean an element that's been discovered but doesn't naturally occur on Earth? Yes. Yes. Well, I mean, really. I suppose that Brian Cox would be the man to ask. He doesn't do a phone and he just talks at you. He does everything else. He's got every other angle of this business covered. It won't be long before he gets himself a. It'd be great. He could come in here, we could do a special mystery out with Brian, couldn't we? And he could come in and take solely astronomical or physics questions so we not know. And you get new elements added, don't you? At times. But they're discovered in nature. I think rather than where have we been? We've been to the moon, haven't we? Yes. And we've been to Mars, so. But wouldn't they have announced it? Don't you think that have been quite a big story? Probably. But you don't know for sure and nor do I know for sure. No, you're on. I like it. It's a good question. Thank you. Cheers. Mark. Have we discovered any elements while exploring space that do not appear on Earth? You'd be a bit worried, I think, wouldn't you? Because it'd be like a science fiction film, as someone where you get an astronaut in space going, I've discovered a new element and everyone on earth goes, yay, bring it back quick. We can build amazing things with it. We've never seen an element like this before and then it end up being like Terminator two and we wouldn't be able to control the technology. Which kind of takes us back to the conversation we were having in the last hour. It's 12:15 mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 90 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Questions in need of answers include, where have all the kippers gone? How can a sponge make water go uphill, as it were, when you boil water? And in fact, a couple of you have pointed out that when you're making a baby's bottle with formula, you're told not to use twice boiled water. I think so. There is obviously some chemical change underway. I imagine it's got something to do with oxygen, but we'll let someone cleverer than me answer that question. And similarly, I imagine there isn't an element that has been discovered in space but doesn't naturally occur on Earth. But. But we need a definitive answer to that question, either either in the affirmative or indeed in the negative. Dennis is in Watford. Dennis, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The action of water moving up in a sponge is capillary action, and it's the intermolecular forces between the surface of the sponge and the liquid and they overcome gravity and thus the water moves upwards. The capillary action. Can you explain how it works? Well, it's the. There are forces between the liquid and the sponge surface and those forces overcome gravity and thus the liquid moves upwards against the forces of gravity. What forces are they? Do you know whether there are four intermolecular forces? Are you laughing at me, Dennis? We're sorry. I don't know quite what more to say? No, but I mean, what are you? PhD? Yes. Yeah. Well, I got an e at O level. All right, well, be gentle with me. But I thought you might say it's potential or kinetic. Do you see? What sort of energy is it? Or is that a really stupid. It's neither, really. It's the. It's the forces that are interacting between the molecules in the sponge and the molecules in the water. And they actually overcome the forces of gravity. So there's more energy in the molecular interaction than there is being exerted by. If there wasn't more energy, then it would stay where it was. But because they're stronger, more forceful than that of gravity, then the water moves upwards. Qualifications? Well, just. I've PhD in physics, I suppose. So I understand a little bit about the nature of matter. I wish I did. Dennis, I'm sure you understand a lot more about things than I do. So everybody has their horses for courses, eh? Exactly. A round of applause for Dennis, please. Very nicely played. Luke is in Waterloo. Luke, question or answer? I've got a question. Please carry on. So you know how most plants got green leaves? Yeah, I do know. What's the deal with plants that have got reddish or purple leaves? What do you mean, what's the deal? Well, I always thought that plants had green leaves because of chlorophyll, which is the chemical that's in photosynthesize. That's what I remember from high school science. Anyway, it is. So the reddish or purple ones, they just not have chlorophyll. I mean, they must synthesize, right? Yeah, I think so. Again, I'm not really in my comfort zone. I got a b in biology, actually, which is better than an e in physics. But I'm still not exactly feeling confident about even responding to your question with a theory or an answer. I mean, does chlorophyll have to be green? I mean, I thought it was. I mean, if you can get purple chlorophyll and that's just. I mean, that's it, then. But that seems unlikely. Why? I don't know. The chemicals come in more than once. I feel silly even saying that. No, I don't feel silly. So why are some leaves not green, really, is the question. Yeah, when they're still fresh. I mean, because they go brown and die in autumn, but they're not. Yeah, yeah. I always thought that the green. I remember something vaguely about the green being the best wavelength for taking in light for photosynthesis. Yeah, no, you're right. You're right. You're right. And some leaves are exclusively red. Yeah. I mean I'm no plant expert, as you can probably tell, but. Well, that's an interesting question. I'd never really thought of it. That probably has got a fairly obvious and simple answer, but if neither of us know it, then it counts as a question, doesn't it? Yeah, I imagine there are loads of people who know lots about plants who could answer it. Not even sure how much you'd need to know. You just. All you need to know, Luke, is more than you and me, which is quite possibly very little. Still very little. Let's find out. I'm optimistic about an answer. Well, that's it. It's the hope that gets you 24 minutes after twelve is a time. Why are some plot. Why? Yeah, why are some leaves not green? It's a fairly straightforward question. Bob's in Ilford. Bob, question or answer? Question? Carry on. Hi, I've got a biology question as well, my one is based, I was listening to biologists on the podcast recently and he said that the hormone we release when we're stressed is exactly the same chemical compound as those that would have been released by the dinosaurs when they were under threat, or any of our. Can you remember the biologist, did you say? He didn't say, but I think he was talking about cortisol. Yeah, I do, but my question is, how would we know? I get, we've got fossil records, how do we know that that compound was exactly the same? He's saying it's an identical chemical match. I don't, I'm getting worried now. I don't want Mister Hour to evolve into like a police force for podcasts. I'm just interested. Oh, I know, but we've had a Brian Cox, we've had a Brian Cox question now and we've had your question and it's like, I mean really, as a producer of a very popular podcast, if you come away with questions that haven't been answered within the podcast, then the podcast in many ways has failed. Well, I would argue it was very good, as yours is as well. It wasn't. It was. It clearly wasn't very good because it made a sweeping statement without any explanation or justification. Maybe I should have known, I don't know. No. Yeah, because what would be, what would they have studied or discovered to identify what hormones there, you definitely heard it correctly, I think. I'm pretty sure. Yes, I did. Yeah, because there'll be trouble if you did. Fossil records, we have those, but how do we know what chemicals were they were producing in their system. In their system. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. I quite like that. That's a nice question. Bob, you're on. I've got maybe possible answer to the clause. Doesn't work like that, mate. Sorry. All got to be produced. All got to be very, very carefully calibrated, otherwise we get into trouble with the Internet. National quiz for foundation. The IQF are really, really strict about that kind of thing. Thank you, Bob. Dan's in Dean's hanger in Northampton. Shut. Dan, question or answer? Afternoon, James. It's an answer. Carry on, mate. It's regarding the kettle water tasting different after it's been boiled a couple of times. I mean, you kind of touched upon it already about saying when it's boiled, there's oxygen bubbles that being released. So that is part of the reason why water might taste a bit flatter. Yeah. But it's also, if you can imagine when it's been boiled, you're evaporating water, so that some of the chemicals are being further concentrated in the water. So you're getting metallic and other chemical tastes in that water the more you boil it. Yes, of course you are, because there's less left. So if you filled up the kettle again and. Yeah, that makes perfect sense. What are your qualifications for this one, then? I'm not qualified at all. That's all right. But my in family, I've got a member who owns and runs a company that actually came up some of the patents that we use in our kettles around the world. The elements. Yeah. How old is he or she? Oh, God. Approaching 60, probably around 60 now. He himself didn't invent it, he just owns a company now. That sort of quiet. Oh, I see. Okay. I know it's come up in conversation. I'd be surprised. Engineers, what they talk about. I can believe it. And so, and so that it might be that a tiny baby would have the. It would be the concentration element, rather than the reduction in oxygen element that might render the formula, the formula milk. Slightly, slightly dodged. Yeah. I mean, it's actually a good thing the first time around, because you're killing off some of the bacterias on the first boil, so that's good. But yeah, in the water, surprisingly depends where in the UK you are. There's more levels of fluoride in certain areas, more deprived areas that they put into the water. So these things a more concentrated. That's a really good answer, Dan. Thank you. Thank you for a round of applause. Thank you. Absolutely excellent answer. From what I wasn't sure at the outset was a particularly good question. But that's often the way, isn't it? It takes a quality of an answer to establish what the quality of a question was. Ooh, a bit of philosophy for you there. You don't appreciate the quality of a question until you hear the answer sometimes, and that's a very good example of that. So, questions that still need answers. I'm very worried about John's kippers, but we're now a lot clearer on sponges and boiled water. Are there any new elements that have been discovered via space exploration? Why are some leaves not green? Think of it. We're not getting leaves and flowers mixed up. Whoever sent that question in. Some plants have, like, red leaves or purple, purple leaves. A lot of people unimpressed by my stupidity on the capillary effect, so surface tension is the best way to understand it. You've even got a meniscus on a glass of water or a glass of wine. So I do understand it. But I'm not pretending to be stupid. I am very stupid when it comes to physics. It's just one of those languages I don't speak. And Bob's question, of course, just from a moment ago. 12:30 is the time. And here are the very latest news headlines with Amelia Cox mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 I am. With the greatest of love and respect to Bob. I am. And indeed to my esteemed colleagues who put him through. I am going to be a little bit dismissive of questions asking me or my mystery hour to clarify things you've heard in podcasts. I think I am. Because. Because only you heard it. So it's not. Well, anyway, it's on the list, Bob. No harm done. But I don't. I don't want to set a precedent. So where have all the kippers gone? A marked shortage. A disappearance of kippers from the shelves of many supermarkets. As often happens when a question like that appears. There's no point telling me that you've got some kippers. No one is claiming that kippers have been eradicated or have disappeared completely. But there is clearly a problem with kipper supply, and that is why the question stands. Even though you bought some kippers from your local Morrisons last night, that is not pertinent to the broader question. So where have all the kippers gone? Are there any new elements? Why are some leaves not green when chlorophyll is, we think. And how come some bloke on a podcast claim to know what sort of hormones dinosaurs have when me and Bob can't think of any way in which you'd be able to establish what sort of hormones dinosaurs had. Naomi's in south Norwood. Naomi, question or answer? Hi, James. I think I have 1.5 answers. I mean, in light of your earlier conversation and as a woman, I'm trying to try and squeeze in an extra bit. No, don't, don't, don't. Don't get. You can't do that. And don't try and bring misogyny into it. I've already told a bloke he can't do it. Well, I think I might be able to add a little bit to the answer that you got before. Oh, that's fine. No, you can do that. But I'm going to answer the question regarding the chlorophyll in leaves. Thank you. So, yeah, all leaves will have a range of different pigments. They'll contain a range of different pigments, but normally chlorophyll is the most dominant. And so that's what you see. It's quite bright green. There are actually two different chlorophylls, as far as I know. Chlorophyll A and b, they both absorb slightly different wavelengths of light, and that's just to ensure the plant is able to maximize the amount of light it can take in. And so, yeah, in the autumn, what happens is that the claw has broken down and that just normally masks all the other colors. So I couldn't remember the names of them. I'm not a botanist, but they're, you know, carotenoids and xanthophyll. There's sort of other pigments that then you can see them when that corsul has been broken down and. Yeah, and the reason they just plot just continually are resynthesize themselves. Chlorophyll, because white light actually damages it. So it kind of tends to break down over the summer, so it then breaks down in winter, and then it's resynthesized again. So it's kind of ready to just sort of be there. Some plants are always red, aren't they? They always have red. Exactly. So some will just have. I mean, just their variation. Right. Will that be to do with their origins then, that they thrived originally in places where the light. Well, exactly, because you're going to have shade tolerant and shade tolerant lights. Sorry, shade tolerant plants, which might have a slightly different, you know, makeup of pigments, but all leaves will have. Will have some photo will have some photosynthesis, photosynthesize. So it's not really a mystery, but. But it is an interesting question. I think it's interesting and. Yeah. Qualifications. I'm a biology teacher. Oh, there you go. What was the other thing you wanted to do? So, with the sponge, your caller did mention. He mentioned capillary action. Yeah, he's a capillary action, which is basically what it is. He talked about the cohesive properties or the. No, sorry. He talked about the adhesive properties of the water molecule sticking to the sponge. But it's actually. He forgot to talk about the cohesion between the water molecules, because that would explain one water molecule moving into a hole, one of the pores and the sponge. But actually, the. The point is that with water, it's what we call sticky in that it pulls other molecules with it. Like a chain. Yeah. So it's exactly the same reason why, you know, trees are able to overcome really, you know, a massive feat, really, in taking water from the ground all the way up to the top of the. Of the actual. That's why everyone thought I was stupid. Yeah. So it's transpiration stream, basically GCSE biology. Yeah. In fact, it was a fairly blooming. Luke. No, not Luke. It was. But again, I think it's an interesting one because if you haven't gotten, you know. Yeah, but if we thought about trees, if I'd said to him, oh, you mean like a tree. Please do it. Exactly. Yeah. I was saying, trees, trees. I was waiting. I missed the trick there, Naomi, and I apologize. I feel I let you down. I let that mystery out down. But most of all, I let myself. I think that's the first time I've pulled mystery hours. I'm so happy I got through. So am I now. And you get. I suppose you get one and a half rounds of applause. Let's see if Keith can rise to that challenge. That's fantastic. Thank you very much. You've made my half term week. Well, enjoy your rest. You deserve it. Thank you very much. Thank you. In fact, you shouldn't be ringing in on biological questions when you're off on your half term holiday. It's coming. Oh, hang on. Sorry. Thank you. It's coming up to 20 to one. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Carl Zimpresco, Cole. Question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Right. I've always been told that dogs age seven years to one human year. Yeah. And I'm thinking, a, how do people know? And b, is it the same for every breed of dog. Is it actually a fact or not? Well, I mean, it's. Yeah. It's not a hard and fast scientific rule, is it? I don't know. Probably based on something, yeah. I mean, I think it varies a bit with size. It's not necessarily seven. It varies. It varies a little bit with size. I think it's fairly obvious, don't you? Is it? No, I think I thought it was because you sleep a lot and when they wake up, is that the same as us having a day? You know, you wake up, you go to bed, that's one day. I thought it was based on that. But then everybody says, oh, dogs are seven to one, but based on one, there's got to be a factor. Yeah. No, based on. Right. Watching a lot of people die and a lot of dogs die, and dividing the years that the dogs had lived by the years that the humans had lived, coming up with a rough average, doing a simple division and realizing that the full extent of a dog's life is about a 7th of a human life. Well, not a 7th of a human eye. But if the average human age is 80, then that. Well, let's say 70, because that makes it easier than the dog. In human years, the dog would be. In human years would be ten. So if they've just done it on averages, surely. I can't think of any other way of doing it, short of chopping a dog's leg off and counting the rings. I thought it was DNA base or something, but then that seems really fast. It might be. I mean, as I've established with almost every call this week, these are not my disciplines that I'm comfortable in. But I do know that the bigger the dog, the shorter the life. So the seven years is itself an average. But. But I can't see how else it would have been done. But then by taking a mean of human lives and a mean of dog lives and dividing the first by the second, someone will know. I'll put it on the list, Carlo, because there's no earthly way you're going to accept that as a definitive answer. But. But I'll be surprised. I will be surprised if that's not it. Yeah, all right, I know. I like it. Thank you, mate. Bernie's in Thorpe Bay in Essex. Bernie, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Bernie. Right. I was playing a card game with one of my granddaughters. Yeah. Oh, yeah. So I got a pack of 52 cards. Well shuffled. Yeah, yeah. Seven cards dealt each. Yeah, yeah. I looked at my seven cards and every card was black. All seven of them? All seven of them. And then I said to Enid, I said to Enid, look at this. I've got all black cards, right? Yeah. And Enid said, look at mine, granddad. They're all red. Well, so the question is, what are the odds of 14 cards being dealt from a pack of 52 with seven being red and seven being black? I don't. I don't know whether I've got a sore head this week, but are you sure that's a mystery out question? Well, it is, because it's a mystery to know the. Well, one. I wanted to know if it's possible to work out. It is possible. What the odds were. Well, you've got. You've got. You've got 26 red cards and 26 black cards in the pack, right? Yeah. Yeah. So it's ran. It's. It's. The pack is shuffled. Right? And then you've got an alternate feeling. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And I spoke to my son in law, and he reckons it's something like perhaps 16 and a half thousand to one. But I'm sure it's got to be more than that. Where'd he get that from? Sorry? Where did he get that figure from? He worked out mathematically. He said, all right, and is he a reliable. Is he a reliable character, Bernie? Normally son in law has got a PhD in. I think it's astronomical particle physics, and my daughter's got a PhD in astronomical wave physics or something like that. Is that how they met? Sorry? Is that how they met? Yeah. They met at university, yeah. Flipping out so. Well, I mean, I'm very flattered that you're asking me. I'm asking a member of the public. James, you only write words you don't. Not wrong there, but I think if. Well, I mean, if he was my son in law, with those qualifications, I think I probably would have left it there, Bernie. I've got to get a second opinion. So what are the. So you've got 52 cards, well shuffled. You deal seven, two lots of seven, and the first lots all black and the second lots all red. What are the odds? I couldn't believe it. And what I did, I showed my wife. Yeah. I don't think she could believe it. And then I thought, I'll take a photograph and I'll bounce it around the family and see what I say. Not much reaction. Really. Bloody ingrates. Seriously. I like that question a lot. What are the odds? What are the odds? Seriously. I did. I've just remembered something from childhood, that is. Oh, I can't. So I played patience once and kept the pack, and Mum was playing bridge with a friend and she must have not. She must have shuffled the pack really badly and she ended up with, I mean, an astonishing bridge hand. But it was because I had left the patience pack in the box, in her bridge box, and she was so excited that she had ace, king, Queen, Jack, ten, nine, eight. And it was all my fault and I couldn't tell her. She was so excited about the fact that she'd got this astonishing bridge hand randomly, she thought. But in fact, the pack had been separated into all four suits shortly before it was loosely shuffled. Anyway, I digress slightly. Let's get Bernie an answer. It's 1246 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where questions that still need answers. We've got no news on kippers. There must be some people listening. John said that Bernie rang him with the playing card question. Should have found Carol Fordman last week. Yeah, you're not wrong, actually. And I think that Bernie might be owing his son in law a mild apology there for. See. What do you have to apologize for? Seeking a second opinion? I don't know, but someone must know why. There seems to be. There seem to be supply issues with kippers and it can't be Brexit because we would catch, or can it? Maybe they were caught by foreign fleets and they're, of course, now subject to import checks or whatever. You remember that we were going to free ourselves up by introducing loads more red tape that the sort of Jacob Riis Mogg school of logic. Maybe there is a Brexit y answer to it. I kind of hope not. Any new elements. You are allowed to ring in and say no, but you do need the qualifications. You do need the qualifications to say no. We definitely haven't discovered any new elements through space exploration. How on earth would a biologist be able to claim that? We know the makeup of a dinosaur's hormones? What would they have found that would allow them to do that? How do they calculate dog years, as in the comparison to human years? And Bernie's question about cards. There's quite a lot to get through and it's ten to one already. Marcus is in Westminster. Marcus, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah. The answer to have any elements been discovered in space is no. But incredibly, the second most common element in the universe, helium, was discovered on the sun before it was discovered on the earth. And it was actually discovered from a back garden in Wimbledon in about 1860, how there was a total eclipse of the sun. And when you do that, you can actually see the cool outer atmosphere of the sun. And it was possible to spot helium because every single element, and there are 92 naturally occurring elements, from hydrogen to uranium, the heaviest, each of them generates light at particular wavelengths. It's rather like a fingerprint. I mean, we all know that sodium, for instance, in sodium lights in our streets, is yellow, and there's characteristic light from every element. So it was discovered. The incredible thing about helium is the person who discovered that it was the second most common element is a woman called Cecilia Payne, and everybody has forgotten her name. She wrote the most important astrophysics PhD of the 20th century, and nobody knows her name. And I actually wrote an article about her in New Scientist, trying to get her the credit that she deserved. And when the magazine was printed, I turned to the page, and they'd only printed the corner of her hat. There'd been a cock up, cock up at the printer. So Cecilia Payne, an englishwoman in the 1920s, was the first person who discovered what most of the universe is made of, which is hydrogen and helium. Good grief. And do you think that oversight is partly down to the conversation we were having in the first hour? It is a sort of low level misogyny, like a touch of the Ada Lovelaces, perhaps? Definitely. She was English. She was a Cambridge. She couldn't do a PhD at Cambridge, so she went to Harvard, where she was paid on equipment expenses, and she worked for a very famous american astronomer called Henry Norris Russell. And he made her say in her PhD, I'm almost certainly incorrect. Ten years later, when it was discovered that, in fact, helium and hydrogen make up 98% of the universe, he wrote a paper, and I think he mentioned her as a footnote on about page 157. So, yeah, so. And I've tried repeatedly to get Cecilia Payne the credit that she deserves. I even got interviewed at the Charlton literature Festival about this, because I'm a writer. And beforehand, the interviewer said to me at the end, I'll ask you about anyone who didn't get the credit they deserve. And I thought, oh, I'm going to get credit for Cecilia Paine. Got to the end. He said, applause for Marcus. And that was the end. So I think she's. She's fated never to get the credit that she deserves. Why don't you write? Well, you're not really a biographer, are you? Because you could do her biography. Someone should do her biography. That would probably be the best way. I know somebody who talked to her daughter, who lives in America and was interested in doing that. So there's just all these people. I mean, the woman who discovered, co discovered black holes, Louise Webster. You know, nobody knows her name. She's an australian. She died at 49. She was the first person to have a liver transplant in Australia. And, you know, there've been Nobel prizes for black holes, and nobody remembers Louise. No one ever remembers her name. Lots of these women get forgotten or written out of history, which is very timely to the conversation that Sheila's going to have after this and that we had in the first hour. Shall I tell everyone what your qualifications are? Can, if you like. You are Marcus Chown, uh, authoress of the ascent of gravity and the one thing you need to know and. And myriad other science books. I am, yeah. What are you working on at the moment? Uh, I've just written a book about black holes, actually, which will come out in. In June. It's called a crack in everything. So, uh, it's a good title. It is a good title. I stole it from Leonard Cohen. Yes, I thought you did. There is a crack in everything. It it's how the light gets in. Is it? No, that's right. That's the line, yeah. Which I thought was very poetic. It's a beautiful. Well, he is a poet, isn't he, Leonard? People write books on black holes. Tend to call their book black holes. I thought I'd love it. Try with something else. Have a round of. I hate people who plug their books on this show, Marcus. It's such a cheeky behavior. Have a round of applause. Thank you. Stay safe. Lewis is in Hurley. Lewis, question or answer? Answer. James? Dinosaurs. Yes. Yes. How do they know? So, basically, cortisol is part of a group of hormones called glucocorticoids. And these are common across all animals like fish, reptiles, birds, humans, mammals. And obviously animals like fish and sharks predated the dinosaurs, and they have this stress hormone. So it's just a simple. Yeah. So they must have had these Joseph. Hormones. Well, the odds of them not having it would be astronomically small, not impossible, but it's basically zero, dismissible qualifications. I have a degree in medical genetics. That'll do. Round applause for Lewis, please. Helen's in Manchester. Helen, question or answer? Here's an answer. James, carry on. I have an answer about the dog question. How do they know about dog age equivalent? Okay, so if you start off with a dog, that's a puppy. If you imagine that's a newborn baby. Yes. So you know that that's the equivalent. Yes. Usually what happens the first couple of years of a dog's life, it's usually two to two and a half years. That's when they grow to be fully grown in size. They also become usually what they call fully mature. So they've gone from being a puppy to an adolescent dog. Right. So that space of time, you can easily tell that that's going from being a newborn to being the human equivalent of a teenager. Makes sense so far. Yeah, of course. Okay. But how do they. How do they. How do they translate it into human years, is the question. So that way, you know that if it took a dog from zero to, say, two and a half. Yeah. They've become, in human years, about 1314 years old. Yeah, there it is. So you divide one by the other, if that makes sense. Yeah, yeah. Carry on. Dogs don't actually carry on maturing at the same rate as human beings. It's easy to see because obviously, in two and a half years, a human being doesn't mature to be a teenager, whereas in two and a half years, a dog matures to that teenage stage. Yes. So at that point, your dog's maturity rate starts to slow down a little bit. Okay. Okay. And then different dogs, different breeds, different sizes, they're going to live to different lengths. So it's a measurement to full. To full length. Really. Is the. Is this is the root of the answer. What are your qualifications? I run a pet care and dog walking business. I've done various qualifications in dog walking dog. They'll do. Have a round of applause. I've got a crack on because I want to squeeze in another before close the play. Thank you, Helen. Steve's in. Thorough. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer. Do it really quickly. Yeah. To the seven black cards. Seven red cards. Yeah. It's one in 14,030. How did you calculate that? Well, there's 26 black cards, there's 52 cards in a pack. So 26 divided by 52, you multiply it by 25 black cards left. So there's 51 cards and so on and so forth. And then when you get down to the red cards, you go back up to. There's a 26 divided by 45 cards left in the pack, go right the way down and you end up with 14,030.558. Is that about 0.07? Yeah. Qualifications? One of the few things that I remember for my a level statistics. That's another e for me, actually. I have a round of applause. I've no idea whether you're right or wrong, mate, you lost me pretty much from the start, which is not a criticism of you. I'm just bit tired and rubbish at maths. Thank you. And the reason I'm tired is I was on stage last night and I'm on stage again tonight in Southampton a few days, a few people asking if it's still going ahead, given the state of the weather. But it is, as we know, as far as we know, it is all going ahead. But if you can't make it, there is a facility on the website to return your tickets because it's all sold out, like all the gigs for the new book, and then someone who can come could buy them. I'm going to give the board game to John because he didn't get an answer about his kippers and I feel he suffered enough. So the mystery hourgame is on its way to John. You can get your own, of course, at mysteryour dot co dot UK. And the new book, which I have mentioned quite a lot, but oddly not this week, how they broke Britain, is something of which I'm incredibly proud, not least because it's dedicated to my late father, is published today and available in all good bookshops. Thank you to everyone who's already bought it. It's gone one if you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on Global player or on the whole show podcast, where you'll also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as all of Global's live radio stations. Download global player for free from your App Store. Well head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila focus.