How do sat navs know where traffic is?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 text 84850. Tweet four minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, and mystery Hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. In fact, I'd go further, given that we're now living in an age of unenlightenment, where ignorance is celebrated and absence of evidence is applauded. Mystery Hour is a lonely beacon, a lonely beacon of education and illumination, where it doesn't matter how you accrued your knowledge, we will simply be grateful to you for sharing it. What on earth is he going on about? All right, you know those things in the papers where a reader writes in and says, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? Who, why, what, where, when, what happened, what resulted, and what transpired? Well, this is the radio equivalent, except it's a lot funnier, usually because it comes with two guarantees. The first is that you will know more than you do now by 01:00 today. Seriously, you listen to this. You'll know more by 01:00 than you do now. May not be knowledge you're grateful for, may not be knowledge you can use in any meaningful way. It may not be even knowledge that you retain by 01:10 but you will know more at 01:00 today than you do now. All right. What you do with that knowledge is up to you. Second guarantee I ordinarily make at this point of the program is that you will laugh out loud at least once between now and 01:00. Never, ever had to issue any refunds on that pledge, that guarantee. But I would, in all modesty, say that it is. It's not quite as cast iron a guarantee as the one about knowing more by 01:00, but we'll see. The phone lines are full. But I don't want to presume from that that everybody listening knows exactly how it works. If I say the number, it means I've got a phone line free. So judicious use of redial is the. Is the secret, apparently. And the only other rule is that you're not allowed to be boring or repetitious. So if the question you've got is likely, if the answer is likely only to be of interest to you, then save your money. Seriously. So if it's like, oh, there's a roundabout near me, James, and it's got four exits, but you're not allowed to use the third exit. Where does it lead? I'd save that one for the judge. Seriously? And repetition, that's kind of our job. But given that there's nobody working on the program today who's done more than two mystery hours in the past except me, it's my short term memory that we're going to have to rely on and that could get very, very ugly. So use the archive over at LBC dot co dot UK and you'll see there whether or not. Whether or not the question that you're toying with has been asked before. It doesn't matter, though. It's not flipping school, all right? It doesn't matter. If we do a little bit of repetition, all that embarrasses me. And the minute I admit this to you, I know what happens. I get a bit embarrassed when people say their qualifications for knowing the answer to a question is that they were listening to mystery out two months ago and someone else answered the same question and you can remember and I can't. But, hey, we're all getting old. Deal with it. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we start? Are we ready? Here we go. Ruth is in Bury St Edmunds. Ruth, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Do dogs ever completely empty their bladder? What? Well, you take your dog for a walk like I do my lovely poodle, Ronnie, and a bit. A normal sized poodle. Miniature poodle, not that big. Standard poodle. They're massive. Yeah, I know. It is big poodle. I've got a cavapoo, I've got like a half miniature poodle and she's got a friend who's a full size poodle. We can put her on the back of the full. So it's like a small Shetland pony. A full size poodle. He is. And he's gorgeous. But he can pee and pee and pee. Like a horse. Yeah, exactly. So I want to know, do dogs ever completely empty their bladder? Because when you think they're done, they stop again and go for another pee. Yeah, but don't humans do that as well? No. Well, we completely empty our bladder. We should do. We do. I'm a nurse. We do. All right. I'm sorry. Do we really? Yeah, we do. We completely empty our bladder. Son of me. Getting own. Yeah, you better make the most of that. It doesn't happen very often. Yeah, get back in your box. Why would you, as a nurse, why would a dog not? It's just the fact that your dog always seems to have some left in reserve, regardless of how long the last one was. Exactly. Is there a difference in a canine bladder and a human bladder? Yeah. I like it. Okay, so do dogs ever completely empty their bladder? Yeah. Let's get an answer for Nurse Ruth. Okay, thank you. No, thank you. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer that question. Or indeed, if you have one of your own. Chris is in south end. Chris, question or answer? It's question. Carry on, Chris. I had a medical procedure done a number of weeks ago. Ruth's gone now. Nurse Ruth has gone, mate. It's only me here now. I can't. No, it was. I had a drug injected in my arm, and the effect was instantaneous. So my question is, how fast does blood move around your veins for that to happen? Really fast. Exactly. But how fast? That's not my answer, but it's. I've heard this before, and it is surprisingly fast. What would we do? And it being miles per hour, what would. I mean, what measurement would we. It be moles for a meters. But I don't know. I shouldn't mean to be sent to me. But you need it in something that we'd understand, don't we? So it has to be translatable into relevant. Something that's relevant to the air, the spit. How fast does the blood get pumped around the body? Because if you get a tight. Sometimes you see blood spurting, don't you? So, I mean, if it's a bit. That must be. Yeah, I like that question. That's a really nice one. How fast does blood move through the body? And is a dog's bladder ever emptied? It's all a bit medical. Veterinary science and medical science. Are you all right? Was the procedure successful, if you don't mind me asking? Well, it was a colonoscopy. It was just more information you need to know, really. I did ask. It's my job. I'm a journalist, but. So it was just checking you out? They injected me dazzle amin pathadin into me. And as soon as I injected, straight away, I felt it, you know? So it must be going. Yeah. It must have reached your heart or reached your brain or reached wherever part of it it acts upon super quick. I think everyone's going to be surprised. Except the people already know the answer. That's if we get it. If you know the answer to that, give us a call. Zero 345-606-0973 I don't know how to pronounce your name. Is it Bavel. That's right. Bavel in East Ham. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, sir. My question is, how does the live traffic system on satmaps and in Google Maps work? How does it know that it's twelve minutes traffic ahead of me or how fast the traffic is moving? There's a clue. What did you use? What phrase did you use there live traffic in Google Maps. No, the other one. Did you not say something else? I don't know. What's the. What's the thing called that you've got in your car if you weren't using Google Maps, if you actually went out and bought a. Yeah, I've got a satnav. I'm a lower driver. But what does it. Does the satellite watch every street in England and knows where's traffic? Yeah. How that satellite measures it? Yeah. You sure? I was. But you're a lorry driver and I've already been owned once in the last four minutes by somebody else's professional qualifications, so I'm not as sure as I would pretend to be if you weren't. But why else would it be called a sat nav, Pavel? Well, I have no clue, my friend. I know. I know what gps means, but I don't know what. It's a global positioning satellite. So it knows exactly where. So that knows exactly where you are. How does it know what? The track. Yeah, you're probably. Yeah, you're. I'm very glad that I kind of a satellite. Yes. Yes. That has cameras involved. I think it just has. And mine in the Volvo. When I'm out in the mighty Volvo, I mean, it changes by the second, doesn't it? It'll tell you, don't go down that road, there's a traffic jam. Try an alternative route. Exactly. I'm right now in 27 minutes of traffic, so. Oh, 27 minutes before you start moving again. Yeah. Yeah. Nightmare. To get through. To get through 700 yards. I tell you what, it's a good job I'm on the radio, isn't it? Right. So I'm going to be anxious to hear the answer. Yeah, so am I. Now, I love that. So how did they do it? How did they work the traffic, the live traffic? Apps and updates and sat navs. How do they know. I understand what the global positioning satellite does. That tells me where I am on a map. But how do they know about all the other stuff on the map? Pavel? Great stuff. Lovely, lovely question. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that. I just realized that is it nurse Laura or Nurse Ruth? Nice Ruth, wasn't it? Just realized she said her poodle was called Ronnie. JJ's been in touch to say. There's that. That's Ronnie Barker, isn't it? I don't know, but if it is, kudos. Chris is in Peterborough. Chris, question or answer? It's a question. Jay. What's so funny? What are you laughing at? Trying to do a job here. Ronnie Barker. It's very funny, isn't it? I bet it's not. I listen to this show all the time. This is amazing. First I've been able to get on, but my question is the phrase a load of cobblers. What does that. I know what it means, but where does it come from? We all know cobblers and things say, that's a load of cobblers. It means it's rubbish. It's no good. It's a load of cobblers. Where does that come from? If I stay quiet, are you just going to keep repeating yourself again and again and again until the travel news? I'm quite excited. Listen to this. Every week and I cannot believe I've got on you guys. A good question. We only allow what really allow one a week? The questions of the origins of phrases. And there's a strong chance Wayne Embassildon, who inhaled Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable about five years ago, will ring him with the answer. But I'm just trying to see if I can drag it up from my memory before he does. Nope, I've got nothing. Where does it come? What is the origin of the phrase a load of cobblers? You're on, Chris. I love it. Take care. Thank you for the kind words. It's 1213. My pen's run out, so I'm going to do off the top of my head what questions we've got. Is a dog's bladder ever completely empty? At what speed does blood travel through our veins? How does the sat nav work? How does Pavel sat nav work? Or, of course, anybody else's as well, not just pavels. And the origin of the phrase load of cobblers, is that it? We just got those four on the board at the moment. That's pretty good going. There you go. That was me mocking my short term memory just a moment ago. Alex is in Fulham. Alex, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. I wondered why, if you speed a video up or slow it down, why does that affect the pitch? Why does the pitch go up? If it gets faster and go down? If it's slow motion. That feels like it should be obvious, but you're right, it isn't. Well, not to you. Not to us, anyway. Sadly not. Isn't it? I'm on the verge of saying something really stupid. What do you reckon? Should I go all in? Shall I go all in? Or should I hit the travel news early? Try it away. It's. No, it's really stupid. Go for it. No, you get lost, mate. You're trying to make me embarrass myself on the radio. I do plenty of that without your encouragement. I was thinking about the balloon. When you pull the. You pull the mouth of the balloon and it goes higher pitched. Yeah. I'm not sure. Speed? No. Why would going faster increase the pitch? It's not there, is it? I'm not even close. I've got that feeling that it's on the tip of my tongue, but actually it's in the next room having a snooze. Alex. Good. Quicker work. Great. Question 12:15 we'll get a few answers on the board after this. 90 minutes after twelve, mystery hour is underway. Questions in need of answers involve dog's bladders, human blood, pavel, sat nav and a load of old cobblers. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, or indeed if you can explain why the pitch goes up when you speed up a tape of sound. I know it feels like you should know the answer, but it sounds a little bit cocky to say I don't. So I think it's a mystery. Not just me. Alex didn't either. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Dave's in East Grinstead. Dave, question or answer? How are you doing, Dave? Answer, please. Carry on. About the dog and the bladder. Oh, yes. So what happened? The dog never emptied the bladder because they keep some wee to mark the territory, of course. So once you go to toilet, he'll keep some and then you walk down the road with him. He doesn't pee again. He's marking a tree or lampo. But he could theoretically run out, but only in the same way that it could be thirsty. I mean, he's always going to intend to have some there for territory marking. Unless he becomes poorly or dehydrated or something like that. Something like that, yeah. What are your qualifications? Just read lots of books about dogs. You make it sound almost sinister. My wife make me before we get our dog. Really? Not having a dog? Not getting a dog until you know what you're doing with it. Dave. It's not going to happen. I love it. Of course, it makes sense. And that would be why humans do empty. According to nurse Laura, who asked the original question, humans do empty their bladders because we don't feel the need to mark our territory. Definitely, definitely. I love it. Round of applause. Beautifully done. Well done. 21 minutes after twelve is the time Rob is in Rochester. Rob, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on, Rob. Traffic and sat Navs. Oh, yeah, basically, very straightforward. Back in the late nineties, early noughties with the mobile phone networks teamed up with the major Tom. Oh, said the name, you can say the name, mate. No, don't worry, it was between Tom Tom and Vodafone. Previous to that, there was a company called Traffic Master. I don't remember the big grey masters. I do, I think. Didn't we use them for the travel news? And they used to have a dodgy monochrome screen that sat on the dashboard. That was very temperamental. Basically, what happens is, if a lot of mobile phone users from one network are sat in a queue, they report the two networks talk to each other. So TomTom can see that there's a load of, for example, Vodafone users sat there. And it's based on mobile phone signals not moving. Shut up. Through triangulation, through a signal mask. Shut up. No. So on the motorways. It's more accurate on motorways because there's more numbers of vehicles. So if you've got 200 vehicles, but it's tracking the phones, not the cars, he's tracking the signal from your phone. So if everyone left their phone at home, sat nav would stop working? If everyone left the phone at home, yes, it would, yeah. I mean, it wouldn't stop working insofar as it could guide you map wise, but it would have absolutely no knowledge of what the traffic was doing ahead of you or behind you. Exactly. Shut the front door, uses the GPS side of things to know where a road is. So if everyone left their phones at home, you could obviously think that everyone's stuck within, you know, their home sort of thing, and they're queuing at home, but it works out, because the signal is within a few meters. Now it can actually decide whether it's on a road that is just. You better be right, Rob, because if you're yanking my chain or you've got the wrong end of the stick, I'm going to be heartbroken. That's one of the best answers we've ever had. So all of those things, when it says it pops up in the mighty Volvo, don't go there way. Avoid the north circular or get off. Get off the m 25 at junction 16. It's because of all the phones ahead of me denoting a traffic jam. Yeah, if I can elaborate. I don't know statistics as such, but they say, is it now that approximately 70% to 80% of every human being in the country now has a mobile phone? Yeah. If you imagine there's one or more adults sat in a vehicle, it can be done by triangulation from all the networks. And obviously it makes it more accurate as well. The more mobile phones that people have on the move, the more accurate it becomes. Best. Best answer. Well, what are your qualifications? I've been fitting in car vehicle technology since or 1994. Right, have we got. Hang on a minute, because Anushka doesn't do this shift very often. Have you got the Ray Liotta thing handy? Right, you get a ray. Rob. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And obviously you get a round of applause as well. Happy Christmas, Robbo. And to you. And to you. Great work. What an absolute peach of a mystery. Our answer, if you already knew it, good for you. But most of us didn't, and that's brilliant. God be boring for England over Christmas. Chas is in Ilford. Chas, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, chas. Oh, by the way, just still recovering from Rob's genius there, mate. Wasn't that just the best answer we've had in a very long time? Who'd have thunk it? God. Magnificent. I'm wobbling a bit with my question after that, but anyway, here we go. So, 70 miles an hour is the national speed limit. Why? Who picked it? Was it random? Was it pinning a tail on a donkey? Why was it 70 miles an hour? Why? I've asked everybody that. They never know. Nobody knows the answer. Why? What would you have picked if it was you, 75, who chose 70 miles an hour? I love it. Origin of the phrase load of cobblers. Sat navs. We've done speed at which blood travels around the human body. And the pitch. Why does the pitch go up when we speed up? The sound of a tape? Or indeed, why does it go down? The pitch goes down when we slow that and then goes up when we go fast. Professor Martin is in man apart. Professor Martin is a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. I'm one of my two pocket professors. Question or answer, Professor Martin? It's an answer. Carry on. It's to the pitch of the sound on a tape, yes. Sound is a waveform, which means it has peaks and troughs. And if you speed up the tape, then you're receiving in your ear more peaks per second than you would otherwise, and that makes the pitch go higher. Similarly, if you slow down the tape, you get fewer peaks and troughs arriving at your ear per second, which is, in effect, lowering the pitch. Love it. It's a rather interesting question. You can see it visually, can't you, actually, now that you've brought waves into it? Yes. It also works with light. And this is how we know that the universe is expanding, because all the stars are shifted in color a little bit to the red, so we know the stars are moving away from us. And by the amount of shift in red, we can measure how fast the universe is expanding. And that effect is called a Doppler shift. Qualifications? My first degree was physics. My first degree was physics. Round of applause for Professor Martin. Doppler effects Wayne in Basildon. To be fair to Wayne, he did actually get in on Twitter early. And Chris, the producer, also thought it might be the Doppler effect. I've never heard of either, but Professor Martin went definitive, which is why he gets the round of applause. APPLAUSE James is in Plymouth. James, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, James. James. I live on the edge of Dartmoor. Oh, yes, James. I drive around quite a bit and I've had this question on my mind for years and years. Why do you never see sheep and cows in the same field? Now, I asked my dad this when there was a kid and he said, oh, God. He said, son, that's because the cows will eat all the sheep. And I believed him for years. I love dads. I thought my dad was in mi six until I was about eight. I believed him for years. You do, don't you? Cows and sheep. Presumably you're not going to take my answer, whatever it is, but cows can be quite, you know, belligerent, can they? Yeah. I mean, there's recorded casualties, a certain number of human deaths every year at the hands or the hooves of cows. Yeah, but they won't attach sheep, they might trample them accidentally. Sheep aren't very clever. Cows are quite big and heavy. I imagine it's for the safety of the sheep. I'm also intrigued. Living on the edge of Dartmoor, presumably you come into contact with country folk, but you've decided to ring a radio station in that london to get an answer to a very rural question. Yeah, but it's a stupid question. It's nice. Oh, you don't want to ask farmers because they'll laugh at you. Yeah, fair enough, mate. That's what I'm here for. Seriously. Protecting good citizens of Plymouth from being laughed at by farmers since 2006. James, we'll do our best. Why don't you ever see cows and sheep in the same field? Don't ring me up and say, yeah, you do, because obviously there might be a freakish exception to this with a really docile cow, but generally speaking, why? Why can't you stick cows and sheep in the same fields? It's a cracking misty out. Don't say it. It'll go downhill in the second half. That's 28 minutes after twelve. Steve's in Maidstone. Steve, question or answer? Answer, mate. Go on, then. Cobblers. Talking about cobblers. Yes. It's cockney rhyming slang from cobblers. Awls. An awl is a pointy tool that cobblers use to put holes in shoes. Cobblers. Awls. Rhymes with balls. We're talking load of balls, mate. Yeah, all right. Just for anyone tuning in, that is not a contribution to a debate at the end there. That is Steve just describing the origin of the phrase. A load of old cobblers talking. A load of old cobblers. Jay. Yeah. So what I do every day from ten till one qualification, Steve? Cockney. I'm not a cockney. I was once given, many years ago, a Cockney rhyming slang book for Christmas, which I always thought was an awful present until this moment. It's just come powering up on the outside lane and delivered you the detail that you needed to secure a much prized mystery hour. Round of applause. Well played. How about that? Bang on as well. It's a lovely answer. I wasn't even close. I don't know. I love it, mister, when you get questions that you thought you'd answer before, but even if we had, I'd forgotten. But that was really strong, Steve. Great stuff. It's coming up to 12:30. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, who decided that 70 mph would be the national speed limit. Why don't you ever see cows and sheep in the same field? And at what speed does blood travel around the human body? All of those and a few more, no doubt, as well. Coming up imminently, you are listening to mystery air with James O'Brien on LBC. James O'Brien on LBC. It's 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to Mister Er on LBC. Why don't you ever see cows and sheep? Well, why do you so rare? Why do you very, very rarely see cows and sheep in the same field? Who decided 70 mph as the national speed limit? And how fast does blood travel around the human body? Room for some more questions as well. Heather is in Newark. Heather, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Splendid. Heather, the universal knock. When we knock on somebody's front door is. Is it morph. Code related? Where did it come from? Why does everybody do it? Who calls it the universal knock? It is wherever you go. But I'm just saying. Did you make that up yourself? No, no. Yeah, well, possibly. I just described it. Yeah, that's what I mean. I didn't know it was correct. You are describing it as universal. It's not actually known as the universal. No, no, no. But when you go in. No, I know, I know countries, it's. It's the same. Where is it in other countries as well. Are you sure? How many knockers have you experienced? Oh, quite a few. Getting chinese takeaways in Spain for a start. But then that's another story. But this knock is forever. Wherever and where did it come from? Was it Morse code related? No, it's not norse normal. I don't think it can be morse code related. No, well, I couldn't think that, but I can't. But everybody does it. Why and where do. I'm looking for the words. Aren't there some words that fit? Oh, I don't know. Pop goes the weasel. It's not. No, it's not that, but it's something like that. Bum, bum. Why is it. It's. There's anyone else got. He's got it. It's not going to come. I can't feel it. I feel very bad today. And then the very quick thing when you were talking about the Doppler effect there, actually, you can use a Doppler machine. When you're checking somebody's blood around there, around their veins, you do actually put a machine on. It's called a Doppler machine. So that is another related. Yeah. So that would help us answer the blood flow question, would it? Yes. Yeah, it possibly is to do. Yes, it possibly. Doppler. Doppler was a busy fellow, wasn't he? I can't see that came up with an effect and a machine. Yeah, Doppler. Doppler. It tells it. Can it confirm whether it's a good or bad blood supply in the legs? It's not happening for me. I'll leave it on there. Universal knot. Thank you. Mind how you go, Heather. It's 1235. Universal knot. Cows and sheep, 70 miles an hour and blood. Robert is in Surrey. Robert, question or answer? Cheer up, mate. I'm in the garage with me car being fixed at the moment. That's one of it. All right. It's a big job, is it? Well, hopefully not too expensive, mate. No. Well, I'll tell you what, if it's a big job, do what Theresa May does when the ambassador, the british ambassadors, the EU tells us that it's going to take ten years to fix them. Just so you don't recognize that advice. Okay, I don't recognize that advice. I'm going to drive my car out of here. I don't care what the mechanics say. Come on, what answer have you got for me? It has to do with the cow. From the sheep? Yes, basically sheep and cows, different mouth action for eating grass. Sheep chew grass low to the ground and cows use their tongues to pull the grass up and chew the cuddle. And that's why you don't find them in the same fields, because the cows, the sheep would eat all the grass because the sheep will cope with short grass and the cows want to eat long grass. Oh, so the sheep don't eat long grass. Not very well. Oh, okay. Okay. So they cancel each other out. Yeah, you can, you can follow, sheep can follow cows around and eat the. Go in the field after the cows. If you've got sheep and cows. That's pretty. That's actually quite simple when you think about it. It's got nothing to do with the cows posing a mortal threat to the sheep. None at all. No. That would have been a bit odd because you'd have heard more tales of cows killing sheep, wouldn't you, if it was a thing? Yep. When you first start out as a farmer, you don't really know what to stick the sheep in with the cows. Next morning, all the sheep are dead, all the cows are standing in the other side of the field trying to look all innocent. What are your qualifications, Robert? I spent five years milking cows twice a day. That's pretty hard work. What are you still. Are you still doing that or are you doing something else? No, I've done lots of different things and I'm now coming twice. Love it, love it, love it, love it. I hope the car's all right. Okay, mate. Round of applause for Robert special Miss Jr. Today. It's always good, but this is vintage. It really is. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you want to join in. Still got room for questions still got a few questions on the board in need of answers. Uh, Lucy is in St. Albans. Question or answer? Lucy? It's a question. Oh, I've got it flippin remember the knot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot. Go on, what is your question? My question is, why does sugar seal a deep cut? Very well? What? It does, really? My son used to work in fish and chippy, and he cut his finger, yeah, and someone working there said, put sugar on it, it will seal it really well, and it did, and he told me, and I cut my finger just as mystery owl was coming on, and I stuck sugar on it, and it's really well sealed, and I just wondered how. It's sticky and it sticks to the cup, doesn't it? Well, the woman who told him had a PhD, so I think there might be a little bit more to it, but I don't know. PhD in what? It might be a PhD in archaeology, it doesn't mean she's qualified to talk about sugar on cuts. And she was working in a chippy, no, no, she was doctor related, she was romanian, she was over here working. A physician and. Yeah, for our times. Isn't it just? So sugar actually not, not serves a particular purpose on a cut? I've never heard that before, apparently so. And I hadn't heard it until he told me, and it worked, it's worked on you this morning, it's worked on me today, it worked on him when he was told sugar on a cut. All right, I'll find out for you. Why does sugar help heal? Seal. Seal rather than heal, it stops the blood flow, literally. It's one of those deep cuts where you get a great big chunk of skin and it seals it back together. Okay. And I don't think it's working just like glue. I think there must be something more, even if it is working just like glue, that's still an answer, I shall endeavor to get it for you. Ben's in West Hampstead. Ben, question or answer? It's an answer. Jake's. Yeah, go on. The knock thing, the tune, yeah. Is shave and a haircut, two bits. Shave and a haircut, two bits. Yep. I think it's from an old musical or something, Tommy steel. Tommy Steele. I got somewhere, I don't know why. Well, it would be older than that, actually, no, it would be much. I made Tommy, still might have done it, but it must. And I think the american version, shaving a haircut, two cent, it could be two bits. Bits is american anyway, isn't it? Two bits. Shaven haircuts or quarters or whatever. Anyway, yeah. No, shave and a haircut. Two bits. Brilliant qualifications. A useless memory for things like that. No, you got it. And the only mystery, really, is how it translated to other countries, given that it's clearly an english language. It just spreads, doesn't it? No idea about that. Round of applause. Thank you. Brilliant university haircut, two bits. Shaun's in Bishop store for sure. Question or answer? It's a question, James, just let him. I've got to cross that one off my list. Where is it? Shaving a haircut. Carry on. What's the question? Sean, I know you're a lover of cheese. Oh, mate. Oh, hang on, I've got something for you. Carry on. You carry on. I'll find it. Right, okay. So it's when you get the head swept, when you have mature cheese, what is a chemical reaction in your body that makes your head perspire? Where does your cheese sweat come out from? My forehead. Does it? Yes. Mine doesn't. See, mine comes out my forehead. It's the same with pickled onions. If I have strong pickled onions, it makes my forehead perspire. Mine comes out of the bits, sort of under my eyes, the bit of flesh. I get. Cheese sweats just to either side of my nose. And, you know, the sort of. If I had bags under my eyes, there. That's where my cheese sweat comes out. Well, I've seen recent pictures and you do have bags under your eyes. You're getting up too early, mate. Too late. Another thing as well, because my girlfriend, who's banned from phoning me during mystery out, but she has chocolate and she starts sneezing. It's not the same thing at all. But it is. But it is, sort of. I know what you mean. It's like a physiological reaction that sounds like it's probably some sort of allergy. No, I have strawberry tongue. I can't eat pineapple unless it's cooked. I'm learning a lot about you, Sean. Learning exactly. The cheese. But we'll focus on the cheese. Bless you. What is it about cheese? Pickled onions, maybe part of it, but it comes out through the. I love it, love it, love it, love it. Does that happen with all cheese or just strong cheese? It's mainly with strong cheese. Soft stuff, pungent cheeses. Mature. Mature. Yes, we are. Do you know why I'm waffling? Because you're waffling trying to find the answer. No, I'm not trying to find the answer, that's banned. I was trying to find a tweet that, of all people, the news editor or the deputy news editor of the Times put out earlier, which actually contained a phrase. And I did lost it. There was some sort of market and there was a rumpus among cheese lovers. I've had wobbly bottom cheese, which is quite unusual. I bet it is a physiological reaction as well. Or is that the description of the cheese? The head sway, not the wobbly bottom shuttle? I'm not sure. Wait till we're after this. After the watershed. That's lovely, mate. It's a great question. And I thought it was just me that got cheese sweats. What do you do if you haven't got a radio show? How do you find out whether you're weird or not if you haven't got your own radio show? You can't march up to people. It'd be like James down in Devon asking farmers why you never see cows and sheep in the same field. He doesn't want to do it because he gets laughed at. I asked a couple of years ago about cheese sweats. I was so relieved to find out I wasn't alone. I now actually look forward to them. My friend Malcolm's got an amazing french restaurant near where I live called le Vacherin in. Tis it. And le vacherin is a cheese. And whenever you eat a cheese like that, a pungent french cheese, I've got, like. It's almost like little sprinklers, lawn sprinklers on the side of my face pop out. 1243 is the time. Adam is in Farnborough. Adam, que are we gonna do this? It's a bit fruity. I don't see what happens when you work with a younger generation. You somehow find your own prudish side emerging. Go on, Adam, it's a question. Carry on. I'm rather surprised it's actually gone. I don't know that I'm comfortable with this, actually. Go on, then. Female. Male, obviously. And female animals have sex, and sometimes they have sex for fun. As in monkeys. Yeah, but is the female of the human species the only one to have an orgasm? Or do animal females have orgasms? Yeah, fair enough. Actually, I think we're just being childish. If we. If we get. Get spooky about that. Um, I won't ask you too many questions, and when people ring in, I'll just take a yes no answer. I won't go into too much detail because I don't want any moms in cars having to explain too much to kids in back of cars. But what. But why are you surprised he got on? Why. Why are you so interested in it? And bearing in mind. Yeah, just careful, mate. Just hang on. Take. No, no. To think. To have a moment, just to think it over. Why do you want to know? Well, I was watching Facebook the other day. I got a post on my Facebook and there was a gentleman stood. That's why I shouldn't have asked. All right. I don't know. 1244. Why does sugar work on cuts? We've done the universal knot. Who decided 70 miles an hour was the national speed limit? How fast does blood travel around the body? And Adam's question it's coming up to. Oh, and the cheese sweats. The cheese sweats. The cheese sweats. The cheese sweats. Zero. 345-606-0973 what causes them? Why do some people. Why would you sweat so much? As I'm feeling sick. Your cheese sweat conversation is making me feel sick. Sorry, Jack. Wait till we get onto wobbly bottoms. It's 1245. I've got a wobbly bottom update. It's made at wobbly bottom farm near hitchin the wobbly bottom cheese. And an awful lot of you have been in touch to tell me how delicious it is, so I'm happy to give them a shout out, given that we took their name in vain a little earlier in the program. Why does sugar help seal cuts? Explain to me the biology of cheese sweats and Adam's question about female animals. Also, blood speed. It travels around the body and speed. Who set the national speed limit at 70 miles an hour? Darren is. And J Louise Knight has just tweeted me to say that she knows the answer to that one, but she didn't do the last travel bulletin, so I couldn't ask her. Oh, always nice when Jay Louise steps out of the travel studio and joins us on the show proper. But we missed an opportunity there. My apologies. Darren's in Orpington. Darren, question or answer? What's going on with his phone line? Darren, something horrible has happened to your phone, mate. Trying. What? That was really bad. We'll come back to him in a minute. Mary's in Haworth. Mary, question or answer? Here's a question. Yes. When, who and why did we start clapping? To show appreciation? I think we've done that before, but I can't remember what the flipping answer is. Don't. Don't monkeys clap? I don't know. I keep thinking about seals. Yes. When you look at an audience and they clap, it seems very primeval. Response. It does. Yes, it does. It does. But I don't know. I mean, if it is prime. Go on. I just wonder if it's pre verbal. But did it happen everywhere? Did somebody do it and they saw it and then it spread? I just find it baffling. Yeah. What else could you have done though? Um. I don't know. You could have maybe shouted or do that as well. Bravo. Yeah, but everybody claps, don't they? Not when I'm around. I. Classy sometimes. Let's get you an answer. I love that. Have a little look. If we don't get an answer by 01:00 I think it might be in the archive. LBc dot co dot UK comma. But we'll try and get you. When did clapping become a sign of appreciation? I love that question, actually. Well done. Thank you, Mario. 345. Back to Darren. Question or answer, Darren? It's an answer to me. Okay. What happened, mate? I don't know. Anyway, go on, what answer have you got for me? Right up until around 1965, there were no speed limits on the motorways. UK motorways. And it becomes attention to the government at the time that a lot of the car manufacturer actually speed testing on the motorways. Public highway, incredible speeds at the time as well. Jaguar and Ashton Martin and Cobra as well. So the politician at the time, minister at the time, Shirley Williams. Barbara Castle. Barbara Castle, transport secretary. Yeah, Barbara Castle, transport secretary. Time she decided, along with one of the few other ministers and research centre, which is like the health and safety of the day, to introduce a 70 miles an hour speed limit. So the name that will be always synonymous with the 70 miles speed limit is Barbour Castle. Basically pretty strong. Three or four years and then it would be a temporary speed. Then it was decided, yes, we're going to go with that, basically. Fantastic. Did you mention Aston Martins? Yeah, yeah. They were speed testing. It was cobra and Jaguar all using it as a. So they had to bring. They had to bring in a speed limit to stop the. That's just brilliant. Qualifications, Darren. Petrolhead and anorec. That'll do nicely. Thank you very much indeed. Stuart is in Potter's Bar. Question or answer, Stuart? Answer, sir. Bring it on. It's the blood and the sugar. The sugar makes a bridge between the wound that can coagulate. It's very hard for the blood itself to bridge the wound, but when you put Italians do it with the back of a leather belt, they scratch off the rough edge of the leather and they'll put that on the wound. And so the blood can join with the sugar molecules and then join with more sugar and then join to the other side of the wound and then it coagulates and it dries a lot harder. So it's a breaching. It's a breaching method. So it's almost like caramelizing. Yeah, almost like. I suppose, yeah. But you understand with the molecules, you know, the blood can't bridge the gap between the two sides of the wound, but it can bridge the gap between the sugar and then. Oh, so the sugar sort of. It just accelerates scabbing, then? Yeah, basically it makes a thermoscape because the blood itself isn't strong enough to bond between the two, but the sugar bond is strong enough. And Italians. I know this because a sicilian farmer once showed me the back of a belt. He scratched the leather off. Hang on. You might want to rephrase that. A sicilian farmer once showed you the back of his belt and I've mentioned sign the word coagulate. So thank you very much. Hang on a minute. What are your qualifications? I haven't got any. I mean, apart from the sicilian farmer who showed you the back of his belt. It's got to be enough. How did you find out, though? Just tell me how you know this. Well, it's just from looking into it, from being, you know. You know. And also I managed to. I've had. I've cut an artery in my hand before and had that sealed up. So the doctors. A questing mind, mate. Yeah. Thank you. Round of applause for Stuart. Very nicely done. Mark's in Bromley. Mark, question or answer? Question. Yes. You won't like this one. Why? As you get older, as a man, do your eyebrows grow thicker and faster? If you look at old people crafting, you'll notice that the old guys got these really dense, thick eyebrows. And as I'm getting older, my eyebrows have thickened. Why? How annoying. You get more hair in places where you don't want it, as you lose hair in places where you do want it. It's one of the great curses of masculinity, isn't it, really? Speak for yourself. I've still got a full head of hair. Yeah, all right. Unlike some people. Yeah. We've all got our crosses to bear, Mark. Yeah. Are you sure they get. Is it not. I mean, how do we know that they're not just growing all our lives? No, they got thicker. That's the whole point. Yeah, but that's because they've been growing for years and now they're getting thicker because they've been growing for so long. But it doesn't seem to be anywhere else. You are. It's not happening anywhere else. It's on your eyebrows. Only it's not, actually. How old are you? I'm about a year older than you, actually. You haven't got any hair in your ears yet? No. Sharp. You must have hair in your ears. You would go to decent bathers. Yeah, but if you didn't, then, you see. But you're growing hair in your ear. You didn't grow hair in your area when you were ten, did you? No, but only minute. Thin hair, to be honest. Bounce up a bit, mate. Bounce up a bit. I know, but come on, you look at old people, no offense to anyone old. Quite often the hair on their eyebrows is really thicker. Mine is definitely thicker. I'm running out of time, but let's free up a fine line quickly. See if Mark Morgan answered for Mark. Why do our eyebrows get thicker as we get older? Who invented clapping and when did it become a kind of sign of approval? Sugar and cuts. We've done. We haven't done cheese sweats. And Adam's question about animals and speed of blood as well. Alex is in Walton on terms. Alex, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's to do with the speed of blood through his own body. Oh, yes. There's a couple of answers, depending on. Just give me the fastest arteries or. Yeah, or the vein. Or the veins. So in veins, it's down to skeletal muscle contraction. So as you move the muscles, put pressure on the. Give me the speed, man. Give me the speed. Give me some numbers. Well, it varies. Oh, give me the fastest. What's the fastest speed at which blood can move through a human body? What are you doing on the phone? This is mystery hour. I'm sorry, I can't do that. What are you doing? How did you even get on air? What? I can tell you where it's at. I want to know how fast it goes. It's not difficult. Varies from person to person. Well, what's the fastest known, roughly? Give me a ballpark figure. Come on, Alex, this is your moment. I know. I'm failing, I'm afraid. Shocking. Such a good mystery. I knew we were jinxing it. Manny's in Chelsea. Manny, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The speed. The speed limit. Answer is partly correct. What's the other bit? The other bit is, in 1965, we had the highest road deaths ever recorded. In fact, it's still a record. So they looked at it. They looked at it for that reason. As well. Yeah. 8000 fatalities. How do you know that? How did you know how many road fatalities there were in 1965? I've just come off a speed awareness course. Literally. Give them a round of applause. That's brilliant. Well played, mate. Just so there you go. Some people think you don't learn anything on them. Darren's in Forest Hill. Quickly, Darren. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Yes, certain members of the animal kingdom do have orgasms. Female members of the animal kingdom. Qualification. Hesitate to ask. Qualifications? I used to deliver talks at the London Zoo. Of course you did. That's not your first round of applause, is it? A few London Zoo people. Although you're the only one who felt compelled enough to call in about what? One more as well. Quickly, Rebecca in Carlton. Question or answer? An answer. Quickly, quickly. It's for the clapping. It's from the mystery hour archive, from greek days when people used to impart their knowledge to large rooms of people and what would happen at the end of it? People would come up and slap them on the back and say, thank you. People who couldn't reach the person who was talking used to put the mystery air archive. It's the perfect mystery. A round of applause for Rebecca. We've done everything. Almost, almost. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next void.