How do deaf people learn how to read?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Nine minutes after twelve, even later than usual, which means that you know how the show works by now, that the more we diverge from the well trodden path of the program, the more likely you are to find a little slot on the switchboard that you can jump on if you're quick enough. And there are currently two phone lines. Free. Zero 345-606-0973 if you try to get through and fail to get through, be very patient. Keep trying. We do short sort the week from the chaff live in the studio, which means a lot of people ring in with questions that are either not very good or not very suitable, or questions that we can remember answering relatively recently. So just because it's engaged now doesn't mean it will necessarily be engaged now. There are hardly any rules at all, apart from that guard against dullness and repetition. I don't generally like questions about motoring related matters, but as with no things on this programme, what starts off as a rule eventually just sort of withers and shrivels until none of us can really remember why we started with that rule in the first place. The number you need remains the same, and the simple premise is someone rings in with a question, you know the answer to it and you ring in with the answer. The new board game, which a lot of people think is a joke, this is a bit like a lot of people don't know that Keith is actually a real person. I'm going to have to actually, at our Christmas lunch, I may take a photograph of myself with Keith to prove that he's not some sort of figment of my imagination or, you know, some sort of sock puppet that we use to, I don't know, keep the wheels turning on the program. Keith is a very real man and the mystery out board game is a very, very real thing. And the early reports, the early reviews are incredibly positive. I mean, so positive, in fact, that I'm now doing that thing that I sometimes do where I'm looking for the negative in a positive. And I'm thinking people seem to enjoy it even more than they enjoy the actual radio feature. But that's not something to be negative about. That's something to be positive about. It's better than the radio show because it's a lot more interactive and you don't have me wanging on in your ear every 20 seconds. The only thing you don't get is a Ray Liotta. But you could record the Ray Liotta off the radio and then play it. If you end up playing mystery out board game with someone who miraculously come Christmas, you didn't know that your cousin Vinny actually has a PhD in rocket science and was the first person ever to, I don't know, put a rocket in space or something so you could create your own Ray Liotta moments. Anyway, if you want to find out more about it, go to mysteryhour dot co dot UK. UK 1212 is the time. Let's get things up and running. Simon is in Derry. Simon, question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Yes. If I was to plant one thing in my garden, what would absorb the most carbon dioxide? Oh, what a lovely cop. 26 flavored question, isn't it? Well, you try to do your bit for the planet. Very good for you. So you could. I mean, how big is your garden? I mean, just establish a couple of variables. An average sized garden, is it? It's a fair sized garden, to be fair, I could plant probably more than one of these things. What's in it at the moment? It sounds like some sort of goby desert in the middle of Northern Ireland. Just grass at the moment. And weeds. Grass and weeds. So you want to plant the. What is the most environmentally friendly tree, really, or plants or anything I can plant that will absorb the most carbon dioxide to go with my electric car. And this is in a climate in Derry, so it's in a sort of fairly cold and wet corner of the planet, even after the effects of global warming and climate change. I love that question. Thank you, Simon. What can Simon plant in his garden that would absorb the most carbon dioxide? And feasible is the only word we'll use. He could feasibly plant it in his garden. And obviously some people already will be going, oh, yes, but how much water will it absorb? But you just play the game, honestly. Natalie's in Caterham. Nathalie. Question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question, please. How did deaf people learn to read? I've got three young boys and they've all used phonics and sounds as they learned to read. And I was just wondering how deaf people do it because they can't hear the sounds being made out loud. Yeah. Because as we make sounds and join the sounds together to make words, and so if we see a word we don't recognize, we can look at the phonics and the letters and work out what the words. Yeah, I'm just showing my. No, it's a really good question. I think I just. I guess I don't. Well, I don't. Why on earth? How on earth. I'll tell you what, I'm cocky, Natalie, but some days even. Even I get a bit frustrated with the level of my cockiness. How on earth could I even begin to try to answer that question? But I just did. I just began to try to answer that question. I think it's got to be somebody who teaches somebody, or perhaps he's been through that experience themselves, maybe. Absolutely it does. So given that phonics are now the. I'm just trying to think whether or not the way we learned to read would have been as well. I remember having those little tobacco tins with little sample words in it and practicing them with my parents, but I don't know whether. Got a word in your head? The sound? No. I love that question. I hope we get an answer, because you got me wondering. Thank you very much indeed. Lovely stuff, Natalie. Thank you. So what is the best tree to plant, or plant to plant in your garden? To absorb CO2? And how do deaf people learn to read? Sometimes questions like that, when I repeat them back, can sound a little crass or insensitive, natalie, categorically, as you know and clearly was not. But it is still an area of interest. And, you know, curiosity is a wonderful thing. I now want to know, because the more you think about it, the more sense the question makes. 18 minutes after twelve, a truncated mystery hour. Which means that I will endeavour, probably fruitlessly, to talk a bit less myself and make more room for you. Keith, stop celebrating. Chrissy's in Barnsley. Chrissy. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. On the International Space Station, which country's laws apply? If you committed a crime, which country would you tried? Because obviously, if we go to, like, foreign country and you're in the british embassy clusters, like, british soil. So what would be the international waters? International waters? I don't know. For some reason, if someone's ever asked this before, then the answer is definitely Russia. But it could be that. I've just completely imagined that and no one has ever asked it before. What have you got planned, Chrissy? Nothing. Oh, yeah, that's what you would say. You would say that, wouldn't you? You would say that somebody on the space station, obviously. And then we got into the debate of, well, you couldn't get away with it, because obviously they'd know who it was, but whose jurisdiction? Some countries have still got the death penalty, for example. Exactly, that's right. I like it. So if Chrissy killed someone on the International Space Station whose legislature, whose jurisdiction would it fall under? I like that one. Number four, is Paul in? Scott. Paul, question or answer a question? Yeah. I want to know what the biological distance between cold blooded and warm blooded animals is. As in, for a warm blooded animal, how is the blood heated? Where and how in the body is the blood heated? That's not going to be the biological difference between cold blooded and warm blooded, is it? The answer to the second bit isn't going to be. I think it's got something to do with the reaction that heat has on the body for warm blooded animals. Why am I doing this again, Keith? Why am I trying to answer these questions? This is ridiculous. I've got. I've got a board game to plug. I'm wasting all this time. So, I mean, the biological difference between cold blooded and warm blooded, should we leave it at that? And then if any blood is heated in a warm blooded animal, the reaction is. Yeah, again, I don't know that we've got the carp before the horse on that does. Are we sure the blood is heated rather than the blood is warm? Because they're warm blooded animals. Cold blooded animals need heat more than warm blooded animals do, don't they? The reptiles are the ones that are basking in the sun all the time. Yeah. So. So how is the warm in a warm blooded animal? What makes it warm? Generate its own feet, does it? I don't know. I don't know either. I will just. I'll start on what's the difference between cold blooded and warm blooded? And if the explanation admits another question, I'll chuck it into the mix. But I think a good answer to that question will answer all the other questions that you're thinking of and I'm thinking of at the moment. 1221 is the time. What's the best thing to plant in my garden if I want to hoover up carbon dioxide? How do deaf people learn to read? What laws, what country's laws? What jurisdiction does the International Space center fall under? And what's the difference between cold blooded and warm blooded? I like this. Good, good selection this week. A nice start. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Johnny is in Kilburn. Johnny, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Johnny, when was the heart symbol or heart emoji first used in popular culture to mean love? I think it was medieval times, but you're not going to take that, are you? Not quite, no. I would. I wouldn't. You need a little bit more than that. I just like, you know, sort of gallantry and chivalry and all that malarkey, just trying to. Sometimes I speak. Johnny, I don't know if you've noticed this over the. Over the years. I speak in a slightly vague and unfocused fashion and lo and behold, an answer actually pops into my head and I drag up some recondite piece of knowledge from the back of my memory banks. But that's not happening today. I got nothing. Okay? I got nothing. I'll put. Leave it on the board. And obviously I'm going to drop the emoji from your question. Sure. I still have faith in you, James, by the way. Thank you, thank you, thank you. You've got to have faith. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. When did the heart start appearing in popular culture or in culture as a symbol of love? Rob's in Warrington. Rob, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question, please. All right, Rob, go on. I just returned from my holiday this morning. As on most holidays, I'm sure many people, I ended up playing quite a lot of pool. Snooker or pool? Where were you? Barbados. Well, I don't want to go off on a tangent. I like a game of pool, but I got to be honest with you, if I. After lockdown, I haven't been to a hot country for two years. I don't think I would have been playing much pool if I'd been in Barbados for the last week. Rob. It might sound a bit smug, but it was so hot. You do need some relief from the sun. Fair enough. So, quick game of pool. A cooling lager. Nice. Pride myself away from the bar for five minutes to have a quick game of pool. I like it a lot. Yeah, have a quick game of pool. Fair enough. Is, um, Israel playing pool with, uh, my now fiance? Um, did you. Did you propose while you were out there? I did, yeah. Oh, round of applause for Rob. Come on. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. You were a bit worried she was going to say no, otherwise you wouldn't have taken her all the way to Barbados, wouldn't you? I know it would have been a long fight home, but, yeah, as we were playing pool, um, I set the balls up and I said to my partner, you know, chalk up, chalk up the queue. You're an old romance. You're an old romantic, aren't you, Robb? There's no euphemism there. So, yeah, I said, chalk up and you said, why'd you put chalk on a queue? Yeah. And I said, well, I don't know. It's just, you just put chalk on and then I thought maybe it's to grip it back, because you like to use chalk in climbing or weightlifting gymnastics. The way that the cue hits the ball, it's like an impact, so surely it doesn't need grip. I think you're very close. I didn't know. Why do you chalk up a cue? I think you're very close to the answer and I would provide it myself, but I know that quite a lot of professional sports people listen to the program. For example, Matthew Pinsent just got in touch to say it was John Amici who gave us that quote about cultures being defied by the worst people in them a couple of weeks ago. But I know that Michael Holt, Hitman Holt, the snooker player, most days he's listening. I don't know whether he's listening today, so I'm not going to answer your question myself, just in case, Michael. Just in case, Michael or any other professional qmeisters are listening. But you are very, very, very close to getting the answer. It didn't make sense to me. Why grip? Because grips, it's something you sustain. You want to hold grip of it, but it doesn't, you don't, it just impacts the ball. You'd think so. You'd think so, yeah. I mean, I don't want to cast aspersions on your techniques here, but the better you are at pool, the less it becomes just about impact and becomes instead about. I mean, to continue the theme of doubler entendres, you're forgetting all about screwing. There's been quite a few youthful congrats. What's your fiance's name? I want to give my congratulations to both of you, if I may. It's Josie. Josie and Rob. Seriously, that's absolutely lovely and massive congratulations to you. We will try and get you an answer to that question. 26 minutes after twelve. Walking the tightrope. Walking the tightrope today. What a joy Raj is in Uxbridge. Raj, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Okay. Why is there an abundance of helium three on the moon but not on earth? What? Helium three is basically this element that seems to be abundant on. How do you know? How do you know? Well, there's this film, I can't remember which one it was that styled. There's no atmosphere. Well, there must be something. Helium three. What is helium three? Well, it's a nuclear element. Nuclear element, if I can say the word properly. Apparently it's got. It might be the future in terms of nuclear fuel. If we ever run out of nuclear fuel here. There's plenty of it on the moon. Really? Yeah. Yeah. So my question is, why is this? Why is there an abundance of helium three on the moon and not on earth? Be the solar wind, won't it? I don't know, I'm not a scientist. Hence the reason why I'm asking the question. Oh, yeah, all right, clever clocks. Nor am I. Hence why am I answering? Why am I answering the question? I don't know. We will. Why is there so much helium three on the moon and not on earth? Listen, I know nothing about any of this, so I don't know why I'm being playing silly beggars. Frankly, I like it. A bit of a double quote, double edged question with this as well. Go on and I'll decide. And in terms of the cost of retrieving it as well, is it worthwhile to retrieve it as well? Well, hopefully that will come up in a sort of, you know, in an attendant fashion. But I can't weigh in with two questions, as you well know, 27 minutes after twelve. Why do we chalk our snooker cues? Why is there so much helium three on the moon? When did the heart become a cultural symbol? Love. What's the difference between cold blooded and warm blooded? If someone commits a crime on the International Space center, under what country's jurisdiction does it fall? And how did that. How do deaf people learn to read? And what is the best thing to plant in my garden if I want to hoover up loads of carbon dioxide? Tim's in welling garden city. Tim, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on, Tim, top man. It's an answer to the tree question. Oh, splendid. So there's sort of two answers to it, depending on whether you just want to hoover up carbon dioxide or if you want to actually look after nature as well at the same time, because the UK is actually one of the worst biodiverse, least biodiverse countries in the whole of the world, is it? It's about 160th out of 192 countries, so it's very far down. And so the first answer, which is just for carbon dioxide, it would be some sort of pine tree, such as a sictus spruce, because they. The density of the part, it's to do with the density of their ability to absorb carbon dioxide, and pine needles are obviously very fine. And also something like a sictus spruce doesn't actually lose its leaves, so it's working all year round. I hadn't thought of that. So evergreen versus deciduous is going to come into play. But the downside of that is, it's not a native tree, so it has very little value to nature. So the actual answer that I would go for is actually an oak tree, if your garden is big enough, because oak trees have a habit of taking over spaces. They love light. They're also the most biodiverse tree we have. Don't they take ages to grow, though? Well, yes, but in that regard, they, they are absorbing carbon for much longer. So there's trees. And of course, what a stupid contribution that was for me. But you don't have to say yes quite so quickly. I know it wasn't necessarily that stupid, but because you're thinking about, you're thinking about decades, not just ten minutes, aren't you? So the best thing you could plant for the planet is going to be around long after you are. Yeah. I mean, there's two, there's two sort of answers to that. Again, whether you want a fast regeneration, say, for example, like when you're. Yeah, I mean, an oak tree will help nature. How much? I mean, there's planting an acorn and then there's planting a sapling and then can you get kind of a tree that's underwater? How much do they cost? You know, if you went to. So I actually. I'll give away my qualifications. I used to work for the Woodland Trust. So you can actually go to their website. You can purchase saplings from their website that are native UK source and grown saplings. So they've. Their acorn was harvested in the UK. Yeah. And then the, the actual sapling was grown up to what we call a whip, which is sort of 18 inches tall. Right. Uh, and they're all grown within uk nurseries as well. So the, the actual tree never leaves the UK, so there's no chance of bringing diseases. A few. I've forgotten the gentleman's name up in Derry. Who was the name of the chap in Derry? Lovely bloke, Simon. He could plant a few. You could have a little oak forest. Yeah, yeah. Although the only thing is you need to space them apart a lot. You need to space them apart and they do like light, so they will then smack in the middle of the garden, you look like a postcard. There was an oak tree actually down in Hainault forest in Alton, that was. It actually fell in the 18 hundreds. But there's a piece of writing where the shadow of that oak tree was over a quarter of an acre and its belly was about 10 meters around. So it was circa a thousand to 1200 years old at the time it died. Oh, I love trees. That's a lovely tree. I. Mate, I'm very late for the news. That's the only reason I'm moving on. Are you a dendrologist? No, I actually used to be a. I used to be one of the people that stands on the street asking people to give their money. A tin shaker for the Woodland Trust. Top man. Well, he's only one of these. I can't give you any money, but I can give you a round of applause and get. Simon, get an oak tree, mate. You can't go wrong. Get a sapling from the Woodland Trust. 1232 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. 1236 is the time. Israel is underway. We've done the first question, the carbon dioxide one. How do deaf people learn to read under what jurisdiction with the International Space centre lie in criminal terms, cold blooded versus warm blooded? What's the actual difference? Heart as a symbol of love. When did that begin? Why do you chalk your queue in snooker or pull? And why is there so much helium three on the moon? I've got two kates for the price of one. It says here, kate in Boundsgreen and Kate in Bromley. Question or answer? Kates. Hi. Just to explain, I'm actually a sign language interpreter. I have Doctor Kate Rowley on FaceTime with me, who's going to answer your question. She's using sign language, she's deaf, and I'm going to be interpreting the answer and there's going to be a few seconds delay and a few seconds pauses while you talk to each other. Wow. But that's how the conversation is going to work, because she's the best person to answer the question. Is that okay? Is that okay? That's absolutely brilliant. Thank you both so much. Brilliant. Okay, here she is. Hello. Kate's saying, my name is doctor Kate Rowley. I'm a deaf psycholinguist and I lecture at the deafness, cognition, language and research centre. I'm here to answer the question about how deaf people learn to read. If you're thinking about how non deaf children learn to read, they learn a spoken language first and they can hear the spoken language. And when they start to learn to read, it's about making the connection between what they hear and what they see on paper, the printed word. So if they're learning the word ball, for example, and then you have a picture of a ball as well, with the printed word underneath it, you say, this is the ball. This is the word for ball, and they recognize the shape of the word. So when they hear the word ball, they've got the concept of the ball, and then they see the word and make the connection. Now, with deaf children, some have access to spoken language. It's quite varied. If they have access to spoken language and they have some knowledge of it, then they can make the connection between what they see and lip read and hear and the word in print. Some deaf children learn sign language, or many deaf children learn sign language, and it's the same concept. So if they learn the sign for ball and they have the concept of ball, then you introduce the picture with the printed word, they make the connection and they go from there. And that's how they learn to kind of recognize the printed word by constant association with the object and the concept. That is fantastic. I know you kind of touched on the concept, but what about abstract stuff? What about words that don't have any physical representation? Okay, so in the same as same, I mean, hearing children learn abstract concepts by using language. So in discussion, they develop a wide vocabulary, and it's the same with deaf children. So the more language they use to communicate from an early age. So if you're talking about kind of emotional vocabulary like sad, happy, angry, then they start to know what the emotion is and how to describe it and what it means. And if there are signs like, oh, you know, like mental states, and the way they are thinking and they're using words like that more in conversation, then if you read the printed words and you explain, oh, this means thinking, this means happy, this means sad. So it's about the more signs they have, the more language they have, the better their reading. Their better their reading will be. Thank you very much, Doctor Kate Raleigh. That's absolutely brilliant, speaking to Kate, the translator. How do we do this bit now? Because Doctor Raleigh probably doesn't know how we reward contributors whose qualifications for answering a question are above and beyond our expectations. And I noticed that Doctor Raleigh is a sort of world authority on precisely this field. So normally I do a round of applause and then I play a little clip. This is going to sound a bit odd. Then I play a little clip of the Hollywood actor Doctor. Not Doctor, the Hollywood actor Ray Liotta sharing one of our catchphrases from Mystery House. So would you be able to translate both of those or is there another way of doing it? And how will she know that it's actually the real Ray Liotta talking? Yeah, I can. I will translate that as best as I can. Okay, well, we'll start with the round. We'll start with the round of applause. Here's the round of applause. I'm just waving my hand. I'll do it as well. I'll do it as well. I'm waving my hands. And now. Good luck with this one, Kate. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Yeah, I did that. Thank you so much. Thank you, both of you. That was a really magical moment. Thank you for having me, Kate, saying thank you. Well, my pleasure entirely, Kate, seriously. 1241 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC. Whoa. That was just nut. That was so lovely. Ollie is in Wellingarden City. Ollie, you've got to follow that, mate. I'm not even going to try. Question or answer? Here's the question. Please, James, carry on. So, recently, I had quite a bad cold and I was all sort of blocked up, if you like. Oh, yeah. And I thought, well, I'll use one of these sort of vaporub things. You know, the ones you sort of put up your nose to clear your nose. Yeah, and it works and it clears my nose, but I was just wondering, what is that actually doing? How is that clearing my nose? That's actually quite a good question, because you sort of take it for granted and you can start. Well, it's like smelling salts, isn't it? But. You mean chemically or biologically? What is actually. What is actually going on? Yeah, I use it all the time and it always works and I just never think, well, how did that work? Because it's, you know, you're only just sort of breathing something and then you're all cleared up and everything seems fine. Yeah. I mean, is it a bit like unblocking a drain with. With peroxide? Is it mean, it's just like a tiny watered down version of that? I don't know. I don't. I honestly don't know. Also, I probably shouldn't have said that out loud, in case anybody got. Do not do anything at home that remotely resembles what I just described. Nice one. Thank you, Ollie. You're on the list. So how do. I mean, we're talking about Vix, really, but other, other, other brands are available. How do they work? How do the inhabitants. How does Vix work? 1242 is the time. Aye. Michael is in Nottingham. Question or answer? It's an answer. James, is that. Is that the Michael I was waiting for? I don't know. Was he waiting for me? I don't know. Are you. Are you a professional snooker player? I am. Are you? Are you. Is your surname Holt? It is. It is the hitman, then. I was waiting. Let's give him a round of applause. No, let's wait. You might get it wrong. Stop. Stop. Why do we chalk our cues, Hitman? Well, basically, you put the chalk on the end of the queue to stop a sheen appearing on the tip so that you can put, in part, spin on the ball. So if you imagine the ball's a sphere. Shiny spear, isn't it? Yes. On the side of that, if your grip has got no grip, it will slide off and you'll miscue. So this is what the questioner didn't understand, is the importance of spin and screw on the ball. So to get the ball to almost roll back on itself, when you smack it quite hard underneath that, you need the more grip you've got. Otherwise you would just push through the ball and it wouldn't. Purchase is the word we're looking for. Purchase. The perfect word. Yes. That's what I was looking for. So, yeah, you need to get purchased off the. Off the tip to impart that spin on the cue ball, and then you can, like, say, unless otherwise, it will just skid off, basically. And the. So, in fact, when he said mountain climbers do it and people on the trapeze do it, it is actually for exactly the same reason. It's to increase your grip or your purchase at the point of contact. This is true, I think, the weight trains and things, they do it because of the sweat, but obviously the tips don't sweat, but it's the same principle. I've just seen your tweets saying, I can't get through disaster. I say, you've got to be patient. I think we're going to do two for two. It's a while since we've gone two for two on the old Ray Liottas, but Michael Holt, professional snooker player, not only ringing in to answer the snooker question, but also the professional snooker player who I suggested would ring in to answer the snooker question. Round of applause first. And now we're two for two. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Gotta love it. How's things build? It's very exciting, that is, isn't it? I saw, I talked over it. That's terrible. That polluted it. I mean, what's the score at the moment? Not literally at the practice table, but tournaments. Back to normal. Yeah. Trying to get back to normal. We're not going abroad obviously. So hopefully, I think maybe into next year, we might be going abroad, to the Far east and whatnot, and get the tour kicking and get moving out. We want it to, but, yeah, it is what it is. We'll just keep plugging on. I suppose snooker players found lockdown easier than most people. Given how much of your life is spent on your own on a practice table. Anyway, yeah, we got. We got access to practice, so. Which, at the club, which was great, but it's not the same, you know, you play in front of no one and it really. We're not mixing. You don't sort of mix with the players as much as used to, because it was going and getting tested and whatnot, so. But, you know, it's a first world problem. We just got a. Nicely put. It is indeed. Give my regards to misses Holt, weren't you? I will do. She'll be listening. She's making me at the minute. It's fantastic. I don't really know. I'm just so excited. Well, you played a blonde. I mean, it's a downhill all the way now, Michael, you got. You got a round of applause and a rallyhota on your first appearance. 1246 is the time. 1250 is the time. What a week. What an amazing mystery hour. I know. I promise I'll start giving away copies of the new board game this week, but I can't because it's so grown up. You've got to do all sorts of. What is it, competition law or something you got to do. We've got to do careful rules and regulations and stuff. I can't just go, oh, you sound nice. Have a freebie. So next week we'll have written some small print. Is it terms and. Terms and conditions? I'll probably have to do that thing where I go in terms of conditions or something, but. So next week I will start giving them away. Obviously, you know, it's nothing to stop you helping yourself, filling your boots, getting ready for Christmas. And you can find. You can get hold of a copy at mysteryour dot co dot UK dot. We've got our own special website, but I can't give them away until we cleared it with the lawyers. So next week, I promise I will start giving away a copy of the new mystery out ballgame. I don't know in what circumstances I'll be doing it. I'd like to give it to whoever asks or answers the best question. So probably this week, no offence to the hitman, probably be Kate and Kate, but whether or not I can do that within the boundaries of competition law. We'll have to wait and see, but I reckon we might clear the board. If I shut up and start taking some calls, then we might actually clear the board this week. It'd be a vintage mystery hour in every sense. And it was actually a bit under the hour as well, wasn't it? Because we spoke to Martin at the top, Richard in Liverpool. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So this is the helium on the moon question, and you broadly had it right? I think so. The helium on the moon comes from the sun, from the solar wind, and the earth's magnetic field blocks it for the earth, but doesn't reach out far enough to block it for the moon. Wow. So we on the earth, what, helium three, we have. Well, a lot of. It's primordial, what we started with, and sums from nuclear testing, which we probably don't want to generate too much more of. No, but. So the moon gets it from the sun. It really is that simple. Could we mine it? That was the other question. Would it be possible? I mean, in principle, one can mine stuff flying to the moon and back. I mean, you know, we could send. Was it Jeff Bezos who was flying up? I don't know. But is it practical? I don't know. I could sell you a bridge instead. Qualifications? I'm professor of geophysics at the University of Liverpool, specializing in geomagnetism, and I make magnetic field models. Do you think you deserve a ray Liotta? Probably not for far enough, particularly compared with your sign language thing. I'm not sure anyone deserves a ray Liotta. So I think I will sing. But what I will say for the board game, while I'd have loved to have had it, my wife's already bought it. I've given a round of applause, at least. Fantastic. You lucky, lucky man. And what an amazing wife you've got. Do pass on my very best regards. Thank you, professor. Laura is in Coventry. Laura, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The one blooded, cold blooded question in animals. Yeah. The terms are not like the scientific correct term, so they're just terms that people use. But warm blooded is also called endothermic, and that means that an animal can regulate its own body. Temperate gesture, things like mammals like to keep their temperature around 37 degrees and we burn energy, so we eat food and burn that for keeping ourselves warm. And then cold blooded animals are poikulothermic, which means that they don't have that ability, so they have to move around to try and regulate their temperature to do what they need to do. Do you think? Yeah, that will work as an answer. So it's about whether the heat is coming from inside or outside? Yeah. So, like, lizards and things will shuttle between warm places and then the shade. So in hot countries that, like, in the desert, they'll move into the sun and when they get too hot, they'll shuttle back into the shade and then other animals might go into a torpor when it's too cold, so they'll stop doing all of their normal functions and have like a bit of a sleep to retain energy. Yeah, that'll do. I think. I like qualifications. I did an environmental science degree about 20 years ago. I thought you were going to say warm blooded. Thank you. Thank you. Jeremy's in Wanster. Jeremy, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So this is unglamorously, I'm afraid this is about the nasal spray question. So when you pop most of the nasal sprays up, you're using a drug either xylometazoline or oxymetazoline. And what they do is they don't sort of Dyna rod your nose, they don't get rid of snot immediately. What they do is they shrink the blood vessels, because what's really blocking your nose is the swollen mucosa, the blocked walls of your nose. So they cause vasoconstriction, the blood vessels get smaller, and that's why you get a rapid opening up of your nose. I would say they can cause lots of problems. Something called rhinitis medicamentosa, which is if you use it too much, then much like somebody that's addicted to painkillers and then just needs painkillers to feel normal. If you use it for too long, more than a couple of days, your nose will then need it just to open up and you get hooked on them. So I knew that was recommended. I knew there was a caution there. I didn't think I was qualified to provide it. But they mean it's like anything else, isn't it? That has a sort of. You build up a tolerance for want of a posh away. It's more than a tolerance, you build up a need for it. So once you've done it long enough, you'll notice is closed until you use it. So they're really awful. And in some countries, they're not freely legally available for that reason. Is that right? Really? I did not know that. Qualifications GP. That was a perfectly worked for me as a phone consultation doctor. How did it work for you? It was okay. Who's listening to this thinking. I wish it was face to face. Indeed. Well, you know, we're awful. Got across us to bear. Not on this show you're not, mate. Seriously, very grateful for all that. You do have a round of applause on me. Cheers. Hey. Very much. Some people thinking that the professor, the good professor in Liverpool should have got a ray Liotta means we would have gone three for three. I didn't quite. Was it really his absolute specific field? We got time. Keep ringing back. Seriously. Joe's in Kingston. Joe, question or answer? Is it me? It's Jess. I've got to start wearing my glasses at work. I'm so sorry. That's about rageous. Jess. Question or answer? Don't worry. Go on. So the space station question, the answer is essentially the space criminal will be prosecuted by the country that they are from. By the laws of the country that they are from. But it's a little bit more complicated than that and it depends on various factors, but it is essentially to do with the outer space treaty because space has the same laws as seas and no one can claim space, just as no one can claim seas. Qualifications. Qualifications are. A lovely friend of mine works for a publication called the conversation. And just last week she was complaining. Well, not complaining, but she was saying how I never read any of her articles. And last week I found out and this was one of them and I read it in an article in the conversation. Had she written the article? No, she's an editor. Oh. Well, you know, one out of two ain't bad. Abu Omar is in Winchester. Abu Omar, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an ill defined answer to a very difficult question. What about the heart? You've got 30 seconds. It's mentioned in every. Every ancient civilization, but probably it's the egyptian civilization that mentioned it first. In what? In hieroglyphs? Yes. It would have been a center of emotion and center. So like an early emoji. I mean, the hieroglyphic is the. Is the precursor of the emoji in many ways. Yeah. Yeah. It's also been mentioned in the Greek. It's even mentioned in the Holy Quran. And there have been so many recent discoveries. No, it has to be a pictogram, though. It has to be a. It has to be a picture, not just a verbal reference. Has to be a picture of a heart. Well, it was mentioned as written, actually. It was even mentioned in relation to the mother of the prophet Moses, you know. Okay, I don't know if we've gone for the picture as opposed to the words but I'm definitely going to give you. What are your qualifications? Heart surgeon. Thank you very much. No, you're not, are you, really? I am. Oh. This is the best mystery we've ever had. An actual heart surgeon has rung in to answer a question about when hearts first appeared in popular. Popular culture. I know. Thank you very much. You get around because you don't get a radio. Because I don't think your answer was actually definitive, which means I'm now giving lectures to a heart surgeon on heart related matters live on the radio. In for a penny, in for a pound. Back to Richard in Liverpool. We've had a stewards inquiry. I mean, is your field of expertise, professor, precisely the answer that you provide? I mean, are you one of the few people in the country who is at the forefront of academic research into the phenomena that we discussed a few moments ago? I'm in geomagnetism, but not into helium on the moon, particularly. It's the kind of. Yeah, but you wouldn't know about the helium on the moon if you didn't know about geomagnetism, would you? I mean, it's kind of related. It's. You know, our public outreach is. You know, why do we make magnetic field models? To look at these things? Exactly. Helium is one of the side effects. Bingo. Right, I'm going to invite Sheila Fergus to play the role of commodus in gladiator. Does the thumb go off? Does the thumb go down? Oh, listen, for lovely people like that, always up. Right, let's go for three. For three. Today I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. If only I brought it all in on time, it would have been a perfect mystery. That's it from me for another day. I'll be doing it again tomorrow from ten. Here, Sheila Fogarty.