How do knives work?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Goodness me. It's always a blessed relief to reach this part of the week, isn't it? But some weeks even more, I think we can all agree, than others. So here it is, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. It's very good fun as well. I can pretty much guarantee you a giggle. I used to guarantee a laugh out loud moment. But of course, you can't prove to me that you haven't laughed out loud. And I got tired of handing back refunds to people who I'm sure were lying about not having laughed out loud, but were insisting that they had only laughed inwardly or perhaps giggled, but not lolled, as the kids say. By kids, I think I mean anyone over 30, really, don't I, these days? How does it work? You ring in with a question, someone else rings in with an answer. That's pretty much it. But you're not allowed to look up the answers. We rely upon accrued knowledge. It's a celebration of education, of knowledge, of retention of knowledge, which is kind of unfashionable when you think about it, because we have the world at our fingertips. You can find out stuff that you would once have had to visit a library and consult several books before finding now by simply throwing a few words into a search engine. And it's such a diverting hour that it has spawned its own board game. The mystery hour ballgame, we called it. We had a lot of meetings about that. What are we going to call it? I don't know. What should we call it? What are we going to call it, lads? And then one genius came up. The mystery hour board game. James O'Brien's mystery hour board game. I resisted that for reasons of modesty, but they insisted. The manufacturers at Big Sky Games insisted that not only is it called James O'Brien's mystery art board game, but also they made me put a photograph of myself on the box. So if you're passing through, it is, Keith said in my ears, a very old photographer. He's a very old photographer. I cannot tell a lie. But, you know, didn't want to pay for another photo shoot or something like that. There's a recession on the horizon. So you can find out more about the mystery ad board game at mystery, is it mysteryad dot co dot UK? And you can win one by being the best contributor to this hour of radio you can also buy it in John Lewis and some other shops as well. But if you are my favorite contributor of the hour, you will win a mystery hour board game. And the terms and conditions for that exciting offer can be found, as so much other riches can, at LBC dot co dot UK. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. I think we're good. Should we just crack on? Haven't forgotten anything. No repetit way. Just don't look anything up. All right, that's it. Michael is in Barnard Castle. How's your eyesight? Pleasure to speak to James. Thank you, mate. And your voice was just so reassured and comfortable to listen to, so thank you. Thank you. Michael, question. Yeah? Who's the shortest serving chancellor of the exchequer? I looked this up yesterday. Well, I was going to look it up due to Colin's sort of course, because I was thinking it must be. It must be Nadeem Zahawi, but it wasn't, because I actually. I can't remember why I looked it up, but I looked it up. I think it was someone who passed away, actually. I mean, the answer today could be different tomorrow, but it could indeed. Actually, that's a very good point, actually. I can't remember. Oh, is it a muck? What? A muck MC. It's. I'm not going to get a round of applause for something MC something, Michael, but I'm pretty sure it was someone MC someone. There's a muck in there. There's a Mac in there or a muck in there. I'll find out for you, mate. Thank you for the kind words. Did you say you'd lost your dad? Did you say you'd lost your dad? He had Alzheimer's, but he then went in a. It got cold and. I'm sorry to hear that. Your voice just said it. Come to my natha. Go. I didn't want to see him and stay, so. Oh, thank you. Thank you. That's a. I mean, it's a lovely thing to say and I'm so sorry for your loss. There will come a time. You won't get there yet because it's all so fresh, but there'll come a time when the fact that he knew how much you loved him will be a great comfort to you. I promise you, mate. Take it easy. God bless. Thank you. Take care. Cheers, Michael. Eight minutes after twelve is the time Joe is in Southend. Joe, question or answer? Oh, it's a question, James, please carry on. Joe, how do knives work? Yeah, it's a good one, isn't it? I was chopping up a mushroom. Oh, yeah. No, I used to chop up a few mushrooms back. Oh, no, that sounds completely inappropriate. Carry on. No, no, just, you know, for a spaghetti bolognese, of course. And I was like, why does this, why does this work? Or to put it another way, why does a blunt knife not work? Or why does my finger not work? Or why does. It's going to be molecular, is it? Do you think it's going to be something like that? But then there's 100 questions attached to it. What makes something, just how does it work? No, I mean, I get it. I do. Yeah. I like it a lot and I mean, it's up there, isn't it? Thank you. I'm sorry to be so. It's so simple, but it's a lovely. Well, the best questions offer. But I never get predictions right. If I call a question brilliant, it turns out to be rubbish. And I call a question rubbish, it turns out to be brilliant. So I'm trying not to do that anymore. But I mean, it is a good question. Is it because no work? Because I don't know the answer. That's the best definition of a good question. You can tie it to sort of swords and scissors and whatever you like, but it. What makes them work and what makes them not work? Certain things. Well, that's it. That's going to be. That's going to be contained within the answer to how do they work? Isn't it? So there it is. No. Thank you so much and take care. How do, how do knives work? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. We should probably get the shortest serving chancellor out the way quite quickly because loads and loads of people are going to. Well, maybe they're not, but they may know the answer to that. Sam's in Ambersham. Sam, question or answer? Hi, James. Nice to speak to you again. I've got a question. Carry on. It's actually my mum's question. We were on holiday last week. I took her to Salzburg. Oh, what was that like? Her 80th birthday? It was lovely. Thank you. Fantastic. And, well, it's a city of music. Mozart's birthplace. And as we were wandering around his actual birthplace, she came up with this question. I thought, golly, I don't know the answer to that. Maybe James will know. So she said, well, can you get him to answer on mystery hour? Fantastic. The question is musical annotation. Was that invented by one person or was it just something that evolved? Do you have any ideas? Yeah. You mean like the paper written down with what they called staves. And exactly minimums. There should be quavers and all of those things. I'm going on someone. Did someone originally invent it? Did it ever? When did it first appear? Is what we wanted, isn't it? Something along those lines. I should do my best to find out. Would you recommend a trip to Salzburg? Absolutely. Beautiful. And the cakes are beyond compare. I went to Vienna a few years ago and it is a different world. You think the French or the Japanese are the kings of Patisserie, but the Austrians, every time. Holy moly. Sam, you're on. I give my love to your mum. I shall do my best to get her the answer that she craves. Quite a lot of people unhappy with Joe for putting mushrooms in a spaghetti bolognese. Listen. But Bolognese isn't even a dish that most Italians recognize. It's a complete. It's a bit like chopped suey or something like that. It's a dish that's essentially invented for tourists. So he can put. If he wants to put mushrooms in it, he can. A ragu. You have a rago, then maybe you can put mushrooms in it, I'm not sure. But don't get all on your high horse with me about Joe's decision to put a few mushrooms in it. There's a flipping recession around the corner. You bulk up your Bolognese with a few mushrooms and fair play to you, I say. Alex is in Wrexham. Alex, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Thank you. I've been listening to your program now for a few weeks. And a couple of questions occurred to me listening to your programme, which is excellent, by the way. Thank you very much. What's the difference between truth, fact and knowledge? Are they all the same? Are they intertwined? And what? Let's look at truth. What do we mean by truth? This is quite a big question. In many ways it's a whole module and a philosophy bachelor's degree. There's epidemiology, isn't it, or something. Yeah, well, I've looked into it, but every time. Everybody's got their own idea about it. Yeah, but knowledge is a collection of facts. So there's a difference there. Knowledge is the bank and facts is the money. Right? Right. Okay, so we can do that. Truth and fact, I think, are synonyms. I think an objective truth is a fact. So truth and fact are the same. And the place where they reside is called knowledge. So what's truth? Is it your truth or is it my truth? No, if it's an objective truth. It's a fact. So if it's objective, yeah, it's. It's a fact. Like, um, I don't know, two plus two is four. Or even if you stick your hand in a pan full of boiling water, it will get burned. These are truths and facts. Okay, let's talk about personal experience then. Factually, I might experience something. And this way, you can get to the political side of it and say factual. Factually, that's what I've experienced in the past. Therefore, it will happen time and time. No. Well, this is David Hume. You see, this is blending correlation and causation. This is extrapolating from the fact that every. Every crow you've ever seen is black means that the next crow you will see is black. But that's neither truth nor fact, actually, because it is epistemologically unprovable. Okay, so what about statistics? Statistics, then? So you can talk about a huge statistic likelihood that the next crow you will see will be black, but you can't call it a fact or a truth. So it's a truth as long as every time you've experienced that thing. No, no. It's a truth to say every crow I've ever seen is black. That's a truth. That's a fact. But you can't say the next crow I see will be black because you can't know that you've got the subjective truth. Well, that's not. There's not really any such thing. There's not an absolute truth. Haven't you? No. Absolute and objective are the same. There's not really any such thing as a subjective truth. The subjective truth would be a belief. Really? Correct. Yeah. I totally agree. And if you prove that it's true, it ceases to be subjective and it becomes objective. So the moment a subjective truth is proved to be true, it becomes an objective truth and therefore a fact. And therefore, it will make up part of your knowledge. Where does that leave religion? That's all belief. So it's not a truth? No. Well, it's a subjective truth for the people that believe. But if God turns up, then it becomes an objective truth. Totally get that one. So let's go through it again. And so a truth is absolutely objective. If it's objective, it's a fact. If it's subjective, it's a belief belief. Okay. And if it's a fact that is an objective truth, then it makes up part of your knowledge, because knowledge is different from fact in the way that a bank is different from a pound, from a pound. Okay. I think I get you. Yeah, I think so. Anyway, let me. I need to absorb that, of course, by a process of intellectual osmosis. Well, charm I hardest. James, thank you very much. No, thank you. I enjoyed that. It reminded me of being at college. And I think I earned at least one of these. 1216 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. The shortest serving chancellor. How do knives work? What is the origin of musical annotation? Was it invented by one person? And we did the truth, facts and knowledge. Lots more knowledge to come, involving lots of facts and objective truths, but no subjective truths allowed, because that's how you prove you can go definitive. That's why I asked. There you go. I should have thrown that into the last one, shouldn't I? The. Was it Alex? I think it was the idea that you can. When I say, you give me an answer, and at that moment it's a truth, possibly a subjective truth, I say, what are your qualifications? And then we establish, in a way whether or not it becomes an objective truth, at which point it becomes part of our shared knowledge. Wow. Nick Sincreuden. Nick, question or answer? Carry on. Why do knives work? Yes. How do knives work? Crucial difference. How is GCSE physics? Pressure equals force over area. So for a given force, say, ten newtons, the smaller the area, the greater the pressure you're bringing to bear. So it's why needles go through skin rather than a piece of dowel, and it's why cheese wire cuts through cheese. And it's why knives cut through anything, because they have a very, very small surface area in contact with the mushroom or the piece of meat or whatever it is. Pressure equals force over area, and it's the area of what we'll call the blade, the area of the area of contact between the blade and the mushroom. Ah. So. So knife plus mushroom area. Yeah. So the sharper the blade, the greater the pressure. And it's why sharp knives are safer than blunt knives, because you don't push down as hard with them as you would. Yeah, exactly. And therefore lots of people do a mystery mischief trying to open oysters with a relatively blunt instrument, because they're using so much pressure that when it hits. When it skips off the oyster and hits the skin, you're in all sorts of trouble. Yeah. There's also. You have to find exactly the right point to try and force the blade in, otherwise you're fighting a losing battle. That's very true. That's very well that is a brilliant answer to it. To a brilliant question, actually. Question or answer? I mean, qualifications. Sorry. Retired teacher, taking four children through GCSE physics. That's nice. I like that. Well, yeah, I'm not. I'm not an English. I'm not a science teacher by trade, but I've had to take my kids through. Did your own physics with your own kids? Yeah. What did you teach? English. It's quite a difference. There is, but I did a level. Physics and chemistry and biology. So really, what made you change to English later? The realization I was useless at maths and could never be a doctor. Okay, but. So it was medical school on the horizon, slowly slipping out of sight, but you. And then you ended up an english teacher. Yeah. Do you know who else was like that? Michael Rosen. Really? You know the poet, Michael Rose? He was at medical school. I love Michael Rosen. I love Michael Rosen as well. And I love what he's had to say over the years to education secretary. I thought you might. Yeah. He's very much a force for good. You should listen to the full disclosure interview I did with him. He gives me chapter and verse on how he sort of almost accidentally ended up training to be a doctor. Yeah, well, I'm living vicariously now. I've got one who's at university studying to be a dentist, and the other who's just started studying psychology. So that's your teeth and your mind. That's your teeth and your mind looked after. What about the rest of you falling apart? Nick. Lovely stuff. Did he get a round of applause? Did we give him one? A round of applause for Nick, please. Thank you very much. 23 minutes after twelve is the time Sana is in Uxbridge. Sana, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. So, I was watching Netflix, and you know how they have the parental guidance of the pg twelve. Pg 15 stuff written on the top? Yes. And that made me wonder, why don't novels and books have the same for the same reason? It's a very good question, actually, I don't know that. Well, I mean, there is one rather obvious answer to this. Hmm. I wonder what that is. It's because you can judge a book by its cover. I got that off key. Not over. No, obviously not. Obviously not. I mean, to be honest with you, there are now attempts in academic institutions, universities and schools to do a form of warning or age rating. They call it a trigger warning, and it will tell people before they read something that it might contain something that will disturb them or bring back unpleasant memories. Or trigger flashbacks or post traumatic stress disorder. And very stupid right wing people who use the word woke as an insult, pretend or genuinely do get very, very angry about the idea of trigger warnings on books. But you remind me that theoretically they should be angry about age ratings on films, shouldn't they? The idea that we should be careful with what we expose ourselves to. I mean, Judy points out that libraries used to have children's sections. I mean, you have distinctions. Don't you have children's books? Young adult fiction is a very big genre now and then, adult fiction, but you never. So you have a rough idea. If you're in the adult section, it's going to be an adult book. But there's no book you can't read at a certain age. Yeah, exactly. So, for instance, when I was 1415, I think I was reading the kite runner. And I mean, looking back, I think it was quite. Had adult themes, like they would have certain. Yeah. So. And that just made me wonder. I mean, it would make parents jobs easier as well, and just maybe for the same reason as you have as the films. Yeah. I mean, I wonder what the psychology is of reading a written word rather than seeing actual images in front of you. They put stuff on music, don't they? They put age warnings on lyrics, sometimes swear words, but you never get it on a book. I don't know why. I tell you what I do know. Isn't the kite runner one of the most beautiful books you've ever read? Oh, it is. Oh, yeah, absolutely. All of the ones by Charlotte Husseini. But definitely the kite runner. It haunts me. I still remember some of the scenes, the stuff in the football stadium. That's what I mean. It does haunt you, right? Yes, it really does. It really does. Let's find out. I imagine the answer is that books have been around longer than concert. Well, the church would have probably done it once. The church used to. And they still burn books. But I imagine the answer will be that books have been around longer than the idea that we should be limiting access to them. But I don't know. I love that. We'll find out. Thank you, Sana. Thanks, James. Take care. 26 after twelve is the time. Why don't books have age ratings? Some of them can be very racy. In fact, she's reminded me once, you know, those little weird moments in your childhood that you don't quite understand until years later. So as a kid, right, I used to read everything. I would inhale books. I'm still pretty good. But, you know, there's more demands on your attention these days. And I just. I'd read every book in the house. I'd read every book in the library at school. I'd read it. I just read book, read, read, read. And I'd be about ten. No, probably about eight or nine. It was the kids library, it wasn't that big. And I mean, Owen, Owen in the department store in Kidderminster, and I say to mum and dad, like, I'd always say, can I buy a book? Can I have a book? And they had a book section and I loved books so much that I just bought the biggest ones at this stage. And they had those sort of three in one books. Do you remember those hardback novels, quite cheap, but you'd have three novels in, like, in a bargain section of a, of a book section. And so I just bought the one that had the most pages. I thought, there's three books here, that's great. And I took it to the till and mum and dad paid for it. It was hardback, so it didn't have any blurb on either side. And then we bumped into my old english teacher from when I was about six, and obviously mum goes, oh, James has just bought a book. And my old english teacher, she said, oh, can I have a look at it? And she had a look at it and I realized now, looking back, something happened. She sort of blanched a bit and went, wow, that's great. You're really reading above your age now, aren't you? And gave me the book back and it was actually quite a saucy book. One of the three novels was by a bloke called James Hadley Chase, which was not appropriate for a ten year old boy, I don't think. And obviously my english teacher, who I'd had when I was six, clearly knew this and I think the actual precis of the book in the front said something about, like, she was the blueprint of her and then the word for a female dog or something like, God, how did I remember that after all these years? So maybe that should have had a little badge on the front of it and then mum wouldn't have bought it for me in Owen. Owen in about 1981. There you go. Anecdote corner. Graeme's in Southgate. Graeme, question or answer? The question would have been, when are you going to be prime minister? But the real question is, I've. I've got a jigsaw. Thousand pieces. Yeah, from your river d in the aqueducting. I can't even pronounce it. Welch. Lovely. I've done about 55, 60% of it. Right. I just. I'm just stuck. I just can't. Well, here's a first. So you want advice on how to proceed with your jigsaw? Yeah, I've put it in the box. I've got another one with hot balloons. So you get. You haven't given up on it? No, I'm going to put it back, but. All right, I'll find. I mean, I don't know. I mean, is there such a thing as advice for doing jigsaws? I mean, you've done 50 or 60% of it. I'd have been asking you for advice. No, we'll find out for you. I mean, what, what? So 50 or 60% of it is done and Graham just can't get. Can't get arrested? He can't. He can't. He can't. Copper break. What should he do next? That's the question. Perfect. Right, you're on. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for the kind words, if they were kind. I don't know. I don't know if that's something you might wish on your worst enemy. Given how the current prime minister is performing. I think Liz truss made a wish to be prime minister. On the monkey's paw. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I like this. I should have read this out a little sooner. A tomato is a fruit. Knowledge, knowing that a tomato is a fruit. Wisdom, not putting a tomato in a fruit salad. Quite a nice update from that truth, fact, knowledge question that Alex asked earlier. It is 12:30 and Tim Humphrey is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC, 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour continues. Natalie's in Taunton. Natalie, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Okay, so, notation. Yes. Basically, in about the 8th century, something like that, there was a monk in Italy who came up with this idea because we're gonna have to do a lot, but basically, there was a monk in Italy who came up with this idea in the 18th century. Have you ever listened to Mistrow before? No, no, no, not the 18th century. The 8th. Well, that's even worse. Okay, so what was his name? When? I have no idea. I can't remember. You're not going to get around of applause, however, whatever happens next. Okay, well, I apologize for that. That's right. You know, you crack on anything. Yeah, I know. Why not? Because in, you know, middle ages, dark ages, they would sing most of the. Well, all of the Bible, basically, and all of the texts in services. And it's bloody hard to remember. Sorry. Very hard to remember it. So he kind of thought there must be a better way. So he came up with this plan with one single line, which was originally read, apparently. And so with one. With one line, you can have three different pitched notes. You can have a blob above it, a line going through it and one below it. So that was the beginning. And then gradually more lines were added for more notes until eventually there were eleven. And that was known. Yeah. And that was known as great stave. Now, another good quiz question is, where does middle c come from? What is this? Calm down. You can't just ring in, pose questions, answer them. So we don't know where it started, but we think it was a monk. An unidentified monk. Well, the name was mentioned. I've just forgotten his name. Yeah, well, I'm going to need the name because the question was literally, who invented it? Who invented musical annotation? That's what Sam's mum wants to know. Okay. Ask Howard Goodall, because that's where I got my information from. I'd say he might even be in the building at the moment. Natalie. Well, there you go, Howard. If you're in the building, mate, come down way through the window, we'll get you in. He did a fantastic series of programs about 20 years ago called the big bangs of Music. Was it on classic? It was on. It was he considered to be the five most important, significant moments in the history of music. Everything Howard Goodall has done is brilliant. Every single thing. Absolutely, yeah. Yeah. And one of the episodes was about notation. Okay. And so he explained it and that's what you remember, but you don't quite remember the name of the 8th century. I don't remember the name of the monk. I'm going to give you a round of. I shouldn't. It's my curse is my kindness and generosity. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. What are your qualifications? Just listening to Howard Goodall. Well, no, as another retired teacher of music, as the actual subject. I watched that video so many times, but it's a very. And I use that information in my teaching. Can I tell you about the middle c, please? No, I can't. Why would you do that? I mean, I've just been really generous. I'm going to get so much gyp for giving you a round of applause when you don't deserve it. And now you're making. And now you're trying to make me feel bad. I mean, that is really awful behaviour. Actually, Natalie, I'm minded not to give you a round of applause at all now, because essentially you've done. It's like with my children. You give them something and they behave. As if that's not enough, I'm going to give you a round of applause and you can wait until someone asks the middle c question. It's obviously got something to do with the move from eleven lines to back down to five or six. But anyway, thank you. And it was on the telly, obviously. God, someone just came around the corner then. I thought it might be Howard Goodall, but it's not. It was obviously on the telly, that program she was referring to, because she watched the video of it. So. Not on our sister station. Our rather splendid sister station, classic FM 1237 is the time mark is in Harold Hill. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer. Jimmy the o. There he is. James. It's about the jigsaw. God, what. Right. I mean, do you want to. I mean, you got to do. You've got to do the edge, right? So you get all the straight bits and you make your edge. There's your frame. I'm presuming he's done that. Yeah. Well, let's say he's stuck then. I mean, you get. What do you mean? Let's. Yeah, no, but. No, let's say he's got to a point where he's got sea or sky or grass. Yeah. Right. It's a viaduct, so there's going to be sky, isn't there? If it's a picture of a viaduct. So there's a big patch of sky. Yeah. You left. We'll say 50 pieces. Yeah. Well, he's got more than that. He's only done 66. He's got about three or 400 pieces left. He's done 60% of a 1000 piece jigsaw. Well, then you just got to keep putting the pieces. Sting. Not Freddie Mercury, wasn't it? Every little thing she does is magic. I'm missing all my. So I was told not to say the b word. That that woman just said, no, don't do that. Don't do that. No, don't do that. It's be minded. Yeah, be minded. Yeah. So just gotta be be minded. Oh, you mean persistent. You gotta be stubborn. So you get all your sky bits putting every bit in. So you've got 49 pieces. You get one to fit. So 4847-4645 in the end, the last one put it in there's your sky, there's your picture. All right? So he just needs to concentrate on the sky for a while, and then he'll. And then he'll. Why did you do that? And then you'll get a. What's a mitjig? You'll get enough. I hope. So. I'm taking that as the. As the definitive answer. Sorry. Because I don't want any other answers to that question. Sorry, Graham. And sorry, Mark. Well done. Yeah. Round of applause for Mark. You can have that. I'm not even going to ask what his qualifications are. Gavin is in Jersey. Gavin, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I have a question, please. Hello, Gavin. Thank you. What is it? I'm currently in the process of arranging our wedding, and along with all the excitement, we have a question. Why is the first meal after you're married called a wedding breakfast? Considering they don't serve cereal and it's an evening. I know this. Oh, go on. I think it might even be in the board game, this one. I think it is. I think that married couples used to have to fast before they got married, like, for religious reasons. I think you went with a. Do you know what I mean? You go in Lent, or if you're a muslim, you don't eat during daylight, during Ramadan. So I think. I'm pretty sure that they'll be, like, the first meal together. Yeah. But. And also, in my religion, you're supposed to not eat or drink anything before taking communion for an hour. So I imagine that the meal you have after the service is called a break fast, whatever time of day it is. Okay. It's good, that, right? Yeah. You don't sound very excited about that. Why is that? Yeah, it's just. Are you having a church? Are you having a church service? No. Not. Not overly religious? No. Fair enough. So technically, you won't be having a break fast, actually, you'll be having a wedding feast or something. Or a wedding lunch. Yeah. Just all the brochures have it is the wedding breakfast, because literally, in the olden days, you'd be in the church, you'd be coming out of the church and you'd be having a bit of cake or a biscuit or something like that. You'd be breaking the fast with a lovely treat. You see, the breakfast, the wedding break fast. It's part of the wedding ceremony process, ceremonial process. When the church is. When you're coming out of the church, you break your fast. That's it. That must be it. I know. That's it. I can remember it I'm pretty sure it's in the ball game. It's not in the ball game. We've done it before. If we haven't done it before, I did it in my a level, religious studies. Brilliant. Thanks very much. When are you getting married? Next June, 2024. Oh, blimey for giving ourselves a better claim. Well, good luck with it. It's a magical day. I hope it's wonderful. I'm sure we'll speak before. Round of applause for me. No, thank you. I tell you what would be a nice wedding present for Gavin. Wouldn't it be a copy of the mystery, our board game there for him and his new wife to perhaps play on their honeymoon. Patrick's in Dartmoor. Patrick, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Patrick Jane. Patrick, I'm at a small gathering of farmers who are plowing fields with horsepower. Yes. Well, right now, yes. They're just coming to the end of a morning's ploughing. Okay. Now, the question I posed to one of the farmers was, is that shire horse pulling the plow or pushing the plough? And it has caused mayhem because the dispute is whether the horse is pulling the plow or pushing the plow. I have my idea and they have theirs. They can't seem to agree. All the farmers in agreement. And you are the grit in the oyster. Yes. Yeah. I mean, I'm a great one for swimming against the tide, Patrick, but, I mean, I'm going to go out on a limb here and say you think that the horse is pushing the plough. Yes. Yes. Why do you think? Well, to make a horse work with the plow or a cart, one must apply a yoke around the horse's neck. Oh, here it comes. And the yoke is attached to the cart. Correct. Now, the horse is pushing into the yoke. Correct. Which in turn, pushes the cart from the rear in that direction. Not from the rear, no, sorry. The cart is following the horse because the horse is pushing into the yoke. Yeah, but the. However. But the yoke is the means by which the horse pulls the plow. Pushes. No, the horse pushes the yoke. But that is why the horse is pulling the plow. So the yoke is like a tool. It's the weapon, a means to an end. Yes. So the horse is pushing the yoke, but pulling the plow. You're both right. Except you. Well, no, they're right. You're wrong also. There's no way I'm gonna fall out. I'm not Alan Partridge. I'm not gonna fall out with every farmer in Devon. That would be a stupid thing to do. We all know what happened when he did that. So the horse is pushing the yoke. Mayhem. What it calls mayhem. I could see why. I could see why. What is the name of the event? Does it have a name? Is it. Is it. Is it a dartmoor? No, it's just. It's just a small group of people with. Suffocating. Yes. Just ripless. The ultra pieces, apparently. Victorian farm says it pushes. But I don't know what that's based on. I mean, it can't be. It's pushing the yoke, but it's pulling the cart. The yoke is. No, it's got to be. They're right. You're wrong, Patrick, and I'm fairly confident of this. All right, okay, well, look, thank you very much. Thank you very much. I know you, I can tell you. I'll take another round of applause, though, because I'm feeling greedy. I think we've got the Yorkshire farmer on full disclosure this week or next week, actually. That's a fascinating. It was a brilliant program. I'll ask her. She might have a view on it. Thank you, Patrick. All human life is it, and indeed, equine life as well. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. David's in Barnett. David, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, mate. Okay, so electronic readers like kindles. How do books get on there? I can understand if something's prepared digitally, if someone's written a book on a computer, but if it's in a classic, you know, would it have to be rewritten? Is there some way of photographing it with text recognition? How do we get it onto our Kindle or other e reader? So someone's typed it in, so they're going to have to retype all the classics. There are millions of books on these things. Millions. Yeah. So that's how they do it. If someone's going to sit there. Well, I feel. I thought it was obvious, but the producer's shaking her head at me with quite a gnomic look on her face. I can't imagine that there are people typing millions and millions of books. And what about the mistakes they make? I don't understand your confusion. Well, okay, if it's that simple, then maybe someone can confirm that. Yeah. I mean, are you right? It seems like an extraordinary amount of people would be involved in. In rewriting all of these manuscripts. See, I think I'm beginning to understand what you mean. I mean, there's simply so many of them. Yeah. There are millions of books. Yeah. And are they. And they're all available electronically these days? All available, yeah. So how did they get onto our screens? So maybe they've. I mean, but surely they'd have to be, in order to be printed on paper, they'd have to be on a computer database somewhere these days. I have no idea. I mean, they. Well, hang on. I mean, you might as well have said, how do they get the words into books? Well, we know how they did that originally, but how do they do it now? By typesetting. Now, of course, it'd be electronic, but it was typesetting. So everything that's available on paper now will have been electronically typeset. And that's what they would. Because things that originally typeset would be remaining typeset. What sort of book are you thinking about here? A book that hasn't been reprinted in about 200 years. Well, any, anything. I mean, anything. I mean, look, it's. It would be great if it were that, that easy, all right? Or some form of photograph, some form of scanning, and then they just translate it directly into electronic. Yes. Yeah. Well, that's, that's what I want to know. Is it scanned or is it rewritten by hand? All right, you're right. Come on. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I just. The only bit I'm not getting is all of these books that you don't think that are available in paper, but you don't think anyone's ever. You think they're still using the sort of technology that they would have used in the 18th century or the 19th century to produce Charles Dickens novels, rather than the same technology that they use to produce Richard Osmond's novels? Well, yeah, there is a discrepancy there somewhere, because obviously they were originally mechanically set and printed. You know how printing works. You were in the game. If only we had a best selling author here who could talk. Oh, hang on a minute. Well, I wrote my book on the computer. I sent it to the publisher, and then it gets put into the Kindle and it gets put onto paper as well. So because it was digitally originated in the first place, that, that's why it was easy. But Dickens wasn't, you know, put on a computer. No, but I bet you someone has put Dickens on a computer subsequently. Well, that, yeah, well, that's what I'd like someone to confirm. Okay. I shall find out for you. I shall find out. Well, I hope I will. We've spent so long blathering and trying to insert a few plugs from my books. How to be right in a world gone wrong and how not to be wrong. The art of changing your mind. I might have run out of time in order to provide you with an answer, David. Just the point of order, then, James. What's that, then? If the question can't be answered, can I phone back another time and react? Of course you can. Of course you can. There's no guarantee you'll get through, but, I mean, you are perfectly entitled to do that, especially if it's a question that clearly hasn't answered, like this one does. 1252 is the time. Thank you, David. Ana's in Hackney. Anna, question or answer? It's a bit more of a refined answer to the musical notation. Good. Carry on. Well, so the Mesopotamians might have been the ones to have devised what we know now as the notation for music, and that is through archaeology digs that have happened in modern day Syria and Iraq, where tablets have been found with the notes etched into clay. And it all comes down to the basis of. Yeah, yeah. And it's all comes down to the basis of, basically, humans need to express text into articulate sort of text into sound or direction. And so there was actually recently, some recordists and musicians played these old, older pieces and were able to play them because they are very, very similar to what the caller was saying. The period of time in the 8th century. It was actually Guido of Arezzo. I think that's how. Guido Darezzo. Guido Darezzo, yes, yes. And how that started was not a stave, it was when they were chanting religious scripts or speaking. They put little glasses, something like that. Yeah. And then coming back to me now, and it just embellished over the years so that all the monks could sing in unison. They had to find some way of divvying up the notes and the music, in a way. Yeah. And then you had one rogue one that went a bit ad lib and did his ooze and then they had to sort of like, make stage for that. And so that's how it. Qualifications. I'm a composer. Oh, fantastic. That'll do nicely. So we don't know, but there is evidence of it in mesopotamian archaeology. Yeah, definitely. And it's the same as. Well, when you look at it, it's quite amazing. And did Guido de Retzo just come up with it himself by coincidence? He came up with a relatively similar system, do we think? Yeah, because. I think it's. Because it's quite basic, if you look at it. How am I going to convey this. This idea? There's only really one way you could do it, isn't there? You'd have a scale with gradations of tone. And so they both came up with similar ideas, albeit a couple of thousand years or so apart. Yes, exactly. What sort of. If you don't mind me asking, Anna, what sort of stuff do you compose? Have you got anything that we can. Any performances coming up or anything? I've got. I haven't been well for a while, but I'm just in the middle of writing my first album, so it's. But I do lots of classical and modern stuff and loads of stuff. But, yeah, I love music. I can tell. It comes through, it shines through, and it's only this, which is not very musical, kind of timeless. Thank you, Anna. Zoe's in fife. Zoe, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. What is it going to be? It's going to be either the shortest serving chancellor or the age ratings on books. Is it age ratings on books? Carry on, then. Yep. So you do get age ratings of books, particularly graphic novels? Of course you do. The reason that this stunt. I used to work for Waterstones for quite a few years and my husband still does. Sorry if I mentioned the brand. We're big fans of Waterstones. They stopped both of my books. How to be right and a world gone wrong and how not to be wrong in the art of changing your mind. Yeah. I had a special Waterstones edition of the second one because the first one was such a massive bestseller. Always nice. Always nice. The other thing was, I really remember the first one I remember was Laura Palmer's secret diary. The twin peaks spin off. Was that. Did that have an age limit on it? When I was 14 and it was. I think it was at least a 15, if not higher. And I remember this because my mum would not let me read it. And it was definitely. It was definitely age rated. It was naughty, but it didn't have to be age rated. I bet that was a marketing ploy. Well, that's what I suspect for all of these things, because. Yeah, and the graphic novels, I mean, that's imagery plus words, isn't it? Because if I was gonna stick an age rating on anything from the canon, it would probably be Titus Andronicus. The last scene. Titus Andronicus. If you think of something like the boys. Yeah. You know, it just. You could not. No, you couldn't tell that to a child. And on good conscience, I like it. And I like your qualifications and you've earned yourself a round of applause. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. 1257 is the time. John's in Brighton. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's regarding how books get onto the Kindle, the classics. Oh, yes. It's called OCR, optical character recognition. Okay. So they do scan it and all photograph the page. A computer recognizes the shapes of the letter that is then translated into text and then it just needs to be proofread. So David's having a little. David's having a little wry chuckle at the moment about my attempts to dismiss his question or to undermine it. It was absolutely not the case that somebody somewhere has typed every book ever written into, but somebody somewhere has scanned every book ever written into a computer so that it could then appear on a kindle. Qualifications? I spent 30 years in the railway signaling industry, engineering. And we used OCR to translate the standards that were originally typed on a typewriter into the computer. And you're confident that they do the same thing with books? Absolutely. Round of applause for John. I like that. Nice work. And finally, John in Birmingham. John. Quite. I know what this will be and I've remembered the bloody name. Blooming sorry. I've remembered the name now. It's an answer. It's a sort of serving sounds. I know. And I remember with your A level in politics. Well, actually, I was about. To be honest, I think that the fellow we're talking about passed away about 18 years before I sat my A level in politics. But that's no excuse, is it? It's Ian McLeod. Ian McLeod. He was appointed after the 1970 election by Edward Heath. He lasted a month and sadly died in eleven Downing street of a heart attack, I think, on 20 July. Yeah, I mean, Chancellor McChancellor face is just not going to cut the mustard, is it? It's Ian McLeod is his name. I knew there was a muck. I knew there was a muck in there. There we go. Qualifications? Replaced by Anthony Barber, who then brought in massive tax cuts which led to a crash. He was replaced by Anthony Barber, who until very recently was regarded as having brought the worst financial policy in the history of these islands. History repeats itself. Qualifications? 20 years working in politics, ten years selected politician and seven years working for a member of parliament. That'll do nicely, John. And a big round of applause for you. Got to pick a winner, haven't I? I think Anna. Do you think Anna, the composer, was just lovely and she's not been very well, so she'd probably be glad of a board game. Should we give it to Anna? Yeah. Anna, the composer, gets the ball going this week, but there's a lot of contenders. And it was only because she came on quite late that she's in the forefront of my mind. Actually, Sheila Fogarty is now in the forefront of my mind. Here I am. You're done. I am done because the clock's behind me. Yeah, absolutely. I've already taken a minute and 17 seconds of your program, actually. What a cheek.