Morse code in Chinese?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and this week's mystery is brought to you by Jacob Rees Mogg himself. I want sun readers to write to me, he says in today's newspaper, and tell me of any absurd EU regulations that should be abolished. This, of course, a man so certain of the proliferation of absurd EU regulations that he urged you to vote for Britain to become the first company in the history of the world, first country even in the history of the world, to impose economic sanctions on himself. So that is. I'm only joking. I think the phone ins about Brexit benefits are either horribly illustrative or unintentionally hilarious. So we'll leave that mystery hanging. Boris. Not Boris. Jacob Rees Mogg asking today for you to solve the mystery of why on earth he was in favour of Brexit in the first place. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Mister Hour is upon us. The switchboard is already full, so if you haven't got through, it's all your fault for being so lazy. But we will do our best to churn, I think, is the correct phrase. Those calls. Should we just start and you can work out what it is? I just say, don't look anything up. There you go. Don't look anything up. You're not allowed to research anything, so people are going to ring in with a bunch of questions, some of which you could probably answer by opening an encyclopedia or getting onto a search engine, but you're not allowed to and there's no point doing it, so don't. That's really the only rule. That and motoring questions. But that sort of bit hit and miss, isn't it? And that'll do. I think John's in pearly. John, question or answer? Question. Carry on, John. It's. Why does our voice sound so different when we hear a recording of it? Because your head is a bell. Okay, but Ben, why don't you. When you're talking, you're only allowed. You're only allowed. You're only allowed one question. I mean, it's not an actual. It's not an actual bell. It's because your skull is so. Is resonant in a way that means what's reaching your ears from almost inside your skull is different to what would reach your ears from outside your skull. So if you record it on a tape, you remove the resonance of the. Of the bonce. And this is something most radio people know. And Keith is nodding away. So I know that I've got this one right. It is that simple. But when you think about it, it's a bit like asking if you stuck your head inside a bell and bonged it. Why does that sound so different to how it sounds when you're. I'm standing, you know, a few feet away, not just volume. The actual tone of the bong would be different. Yeah. I would have thought it would sound really distorted, though. Well, it doesn't, obviously. No, it obviously doesn't. No, I take your point. I mean, because it's got all that blood pumping around and all the brain matter and all that kind of thing, but that is your answer. And that is a rather lovely start to mister. It's been a while since I. It's been a while since I hit a boundary with the first ball of the game. Malcolm is in basildon. Malcolm. Question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Morse code. Yes. So, Morse code is dots and dashes, which spell out the Alphabet that you can use to communicate if you. All you can do is tap or flash a light. Yes, but what happens if you've got a language which doesn't have the normal greek Alphabet? If you're Korean or Chinese? No. Arabic Alphabet. The greek Alphabet is different from our Alphabet. That's right. So you mean alpha, bravo, Charlie, Delta. I don't know how far I get on this. Echo, Foxtrot, golf. Hector. Oh, hotel. Do not. Yeah, Hector. Where did I get Hector from? I didn't go very well, did it? I saw a very funny tweet yesterday from someone who used to work in a call center and he always used to use the most annoying. So he'd be like, p for pneumatic, k for knife. I don't know why that tickled me. Listen, I know the answer to that. This. They do have their own versions, so they're largely. Well, I only know about Greek, but the Greek, because I've spent a lot of time, bizarrely, sailing in Greece. And Morse code, they use, it tallies to the greek Alphabet. So there's some letters that aren't there and some letters that are. So you don't have a j for alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, zeta, eta, theta, iota, kappa, lambda, mini psi, omicron. Omicron. God, p, rho, sigma, taf. So they've got an extra letter for the. They have their own x. So that's it. What I'm really thinking of is languages where they've got symbols. Yeah, like Chinese. You didn't ask that, though, did you? You said Greek I know, it was a mistake. No, you said Greek. No, what I was saying is, unlike the greek alpha. All right, we'll do that. And what's Morse code like in Chinese where you have. What are they called? Is it symbols? I mean, they're all symbols. There's another word. Pictograms or whatever. Yeah, all right. I like that question. Actually, it's a very good one. Morse code with. Because they're not even letters, are they? They're like parts of words, I think. Exactly. I can understand, sort of cyrillic Alphabet. Might have a version of morse code, but what about where. It's the symbols, the pictograms, whatever we call them, like it. Thank you, Malcolm. So we can write that one. That's the first one to make the list, isn't it? Because I went all in on the first one. Morse code. Malcolm. It's nine after twelve. Captain Bradford. Cat. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. A friend of mine is Spanish and when she writes things, the punctuation looked to me upside down. Question marks and exclamation marks. So my question is how? Well, it's kind of a two parter, but how come their question marks and exclamation marks are upside down? Or is it that ours are upside down? And there's. Whoa. I wasn't expecting that second bit. I think, I think, I think, I think. And it's been a while since I. So it's our numbers that are Arabic and our Alphabet that's Roman, according to Alan, who's called me a plank, so he must be very confident of his facts. But anyway, it's definitely not Greek. I think if my GCSE Spanish grade C is still working, kat, I think they have an upside, what we would call an upside down question at the beginning of the sentence and then a correct way up question mark at the end of the sentence. Or have I imagined that? You may well be right, but I'm just wondering why they put them different ways up. Well, I am going to do what you probably expect me to do at this stage in proceedings and I'm going to have an educated guess. Okay. I presume it's because the order of subject, object and verb is different in Spanish and therefore it needs to be established at the beginning of the sentence that it is an interrogatory statement as opposed to a declamatory one. Possibly. No, maybe not. It could be. Couldn't. Because, you know, in Latin, you've got to stick the verb at the end of the word. I can't quite remember enough. That's why I only got a grade C cat. It was a matter of great family shame at the time, but the. The idea that you need to know in advance because the words won't make it as obvious as they do. That may not actually be a very educated guess. It may be what we call an uneducated guess, actually, and therefore quite silly. I'll find out. I'll find out for you. How's that? I would love that, please. And as I say, why are ours upside down, then? Is it? Yeah. I don't think ours are upside down, but why do they do it that way? I like it. It's a really good question, actually, the more you think about it, Kat. Thank you. Eleven after twelve is the time David is in Tufnell Park. David, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Are humans the only species who can laugh? I mean, properly laugh. You don't mean hyenas and stuff like that? No, no, I mean properly laugh as an experience, something funny and then laugh. Because obviously a lot of animals can show fear, they can show anger and experience anger, but can they actually laugh? Are we the only. There's some lovely little clips doing the rounds of people doing magic tricks for monkeys and just very straightforward disappearing tricks and the monkeys go absolutely bananas. But is that laughter? Well, it's. It's close, isn't it? Have you ever done magic? I'd like to do magic tricks. I'm too bad my children are too old now, but they do often get a laughter type response. It would be so shock. LAUGHTER. I'll find out for you. I'll find out for you. Thank you. Okay. No, thank you. David. Do any other animals have a sense of humor? Really? You would say, speaking of humour, don't you hate it when the wordle word of the day, and there's no spoiler alert here, because it was yesterday's. The wordle word of the day is an american spelling. Everyone's doing wordle, aren't they? If you're not doing wordle, what do you talk about at parties? And yesterday's was an american spelling. It meant. It took me, I broke it, ruined my weekly average on how many goes. It took me to get the correct answer. 1212 is a time. Do animals have a sense of humour? H u m o, you are. Charlie's in Nottingham. Charlie, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please carry on. I'd like to know whether you can have everything in your body that you've got two of. So, for example, your hands and your feet, your hands and your feet. Can you have dominant versions of everything? So do you have a dominant lung? Do you have a dominant kidney? Like you have a left or a right hand? Does that make sense? Testicles? I don't know. I wasn't going to go that far. Eyes. I think you can have dominant eyes, yeah. No eyes. I'm pretty sure the opticians have got a lazy eye, so. Yeah, no, I like it. Yeah, you're on. I mean, I don't know why I said testicles. Probably because I'm just a massive child, really. I'm hugely juvenile. But you do have one heavier than. Oh, just stop it now. People are having their lunch. All right, Charlie, I'll find out for you. Do you have a dominant everything when you've got two organs? I quite like that, actually. The eye, does it feel. Well, you don't have a dominant eye necessarily. Your prescription might be, but we shall see. Thank you, Charlie. Angus is in Northumberland. Angus, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So I was wondering, looking at the green grass out of my window, if you were here with me and we swapped heads, what? Would the green grass look the same to you as it does to me? Is your green my green? Does that make sense? Not really. I mean, I sort of perceive the spectrum the same. If we were to swap heads, would I think. I think. I think the swapping heads is. I think the swapping heads is confusing the issue. Okay. It's quite a big distraction, isn't it, once you move into the imagination and imagine. So what you're saying is nobody's ever done it. I suppose. And this is why I'm wondering if we. If we had a machine look like my green. So if we had a machine that could completely reproduce the green that you see. Yes. Would I see exactly the same color when you handed to me the reproduction of the green that you see? Or would it seem. Or would it look like what you think is blue? Have you done it again, Angus? I got you there. I gave you a nice pithy question that someone will be able to answer. We managed to get rid of the swapping heads bit and now you're talking about would I see blue? It doesn't matter, does it? You just need to say, would I see the same? You don't need to insert that extra bit of possibility, I think. Okay. I mean, it's a yes or no question, isn't it? Now that's what I'd be the same. Well, how do we know? I see. I normally spend my life rescuing people from binary divisions. But on this occasion you needed a bit of encouragement to make your question binary. If Angus could get a machine that would completely accurately reproduce what the color, the color he sees when he sees greengrass outside his bedroom window, would I see exactly the same thing on the piece of card or the picture that he handed to me? We'll go with that. Yeah, yeah. There we go. Good question. God knows what the answer is. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. How do they do Morse code in chinese or other languages that use sort of pictograms? Why do the Spanish have the upside down question mark at the beginning of their sentence? And is it upside down or is the one that we deploy upside down? Do animals have a sense of humor? Do animals laugh? Can animals laugh? The evidence appears to be yes from all the people sending me video clips, including one of a squirrel, apparently laughing. Do all organs have a. All pairs of organs have a dominant half, a dominant one member. And do we all see the same colors? I think we should have probably had a crack at answering that. When you think back to all those famous. Do you remember the dress? For a while there was a dress and people saw completely. So I think the answer is clearly no. You don't see exactly the same color as each other because otherwise there'd never be any of those Internet crazes about is this dress red or blue? And then, you know, 20% of people say blue and the other 80% say red. 20 after twelve is the time Steve's in Chester. Steve, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Carry on. Morse code. Right. Well, two separate answers because you asked about Chinese and that's different. So the Chinese have all these symbols. They've got a great big book called the Telegraphy Code book. Okay. And each of their symbols is on a page of that, on a row and a column. And they said a four digit Morse thing. So still dots and dashes? Still dots and dashes, yeah. They just send the exact same numbers as anyone else would send. So one would be Dadadada and they send, say, 1235 and you look on page, whatever your symbol. So it's slightly slower to decode for them, but it's still perfectly practicable. The rest of the question was about none non English, non latin Alphabet to use that phrase. Then basically every country's got its own. If they've got a different Alphabet, they've got extra morse symbols for letters that we don't use. So for example, there's one that goes da da da da. Which is. We would write down as an h with a bar over it called Bar of H, but in Russian. It's actually the little Ivankaraki symbol. Oh, yeah. Cool qualifications. I was an army radio spy for ten years, listening to the Russians seriously use morphs. Until about 1999. That's pretty cool. That's not. It's not. Is it a Rayleigh ota? I don't know that it is, actually, because it is. Yeah. It's the same as the enigma thing in World War Two. He carried on afterwards. Incredible is. Now. That is incredible. Wow. Are you allowed to tell me that? Haven't you just breached the official secret service? Well, they don't use anymore. Tell us a secret. The first person in the west here at the death of Joseph Stalin was Johnny Cash and he was a radio spy. He took the Morse message. Not the Johnny cash? The Johnny cash in America. Yeah. He's doing the national service, isn't that right? And he took the message about Stalin popping his clogs. Yeah. He wouldn't have known what it said with a bidding code, but, yeah, I never. That's a beautiful answer. That's pub quiz dynamite. It really is. Pub quiz dynamite. Do you want some more pub quiz dynamite, please. Gil Scott Heron's dad played for kidderminster Harriers. Good job on sitting down. Yeah. Give a round of applause. It is, yeah. I thought you fainted. 22 minutes after twelve is the time, John, to next. John, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. A couple of years ago, I dug a pond. Yeah. And I've now got newts in it. Okay. How do the newts get there? Uh. I mean, probably birds. Yeah. No. Why not? Well, how. I mean, nukes don't come from. Well, you'd have some new eggs, which are a bit like frog spawn. Yeah. And a duck would be swimming around. How big's your pond? Oh, it's not tidal. So you got a duck? No, ducks do. I have a duck called Socrates, who comes down from time to time. There you go. So the duck, Socrates, has been for a swim in a pond that's got newts in it. And he's got some. He's got some new eggs on his flippers. And then he's landed in your pond and the new eggs have washed off and lo and behold, nine months later, little baby newt. It's got to be. Come on. What else? Well, exactly. Well, yes, I was thinking if I was a newt somewhere else, I wouldn't go sort of out of my environment looking for more water also. Hang on, we're missing a very important point here, okay. Newts are amphibians. They can walk. Yes. I often find frogs in my garden, and as far as I'm aware, none of my neighbours, or toads, none of my neighbors have got ponds. One of them must. But it's a neighbour. I don't know. So the newts have either been carried there on unwitting duck undercarriage. Yeah, exactly. Duck undercarriage or they've walked there. Yeah. I think, John, I think, with respect, you could have worked this one out before you rang in. Well, I. Sort of. Vague idea. Is it? But they don't get shot out of a nuke cannon, do they, that mysteriously and magically lands in your back garden. No, you see, but if you. If you lived in a nice environment like north London. Yes? Would you go walk about to places that weren't quite so pleasant? You mean as a newt? Yes. They're going to go where the money is, aren't they? Like everybody else does. They're going to chase. They're going to chase whatever it is that newts eat. They're gonna. They're gonna. They're gonna be. And also they'll need to find their own little territories, won't they, so that they're not crowding out where they used to be. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. No, I'm not convinced about the duck undercarriage thing. No, I'll withdraw the duck undercarriage. I am. No, I won't withdraw the duck. That must also happen. That must happen. It must happen. No, no, no, I can't. Unless. Don't do. Unless newts aren't. They might not do frog spawn, new spawn or whatever it's called, but there you go. They just walked. They walk, you silly sauce. They've got blood legs, mate. They've got legs. They've got legs. Yes, I know, but you might as well ask how your neighbors got into their house next door. It's the same principle. No, it's not. Well, you see, the seeds from. From birds droppings. I get that. Yeah. But I'm not sure about undercarriage of ducks and newts. No, but the legs. The legs are a bit of a. Legs are a bit. I suggested I could have worked that out myself. I don't think you're on the right track at all. No, but the legs, mate. You can't. You can't. You can't deny the legs. They're very little legs. They're very short legs. They do it in stages. Oh, they go on exercises. No, they just do it. You know what? I'll put it on the board. How do you dig it? You dig a pond, next thing you know, next thing you know, it's got newts in it. And you haven't put the newts in there. And as far as you're aware, there's no pond nearby. Exactly. Where did the newts come from? How did the new get there? How did the newts get into John's pond? That is the question. I think. I think I've already answered it, but John's quite a tricky customer, so I'm going to leave it on the board. I don't think you've answered it at all. I know you don't. That's why I think you're a tricky customer. Oh. 304 5606-0973 is the number you need for the newts. Peter is in Windsor. Peter, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay, so does the amount of water on the planet remain constant at all time? And has it always remained constant? Yeah, must have done, mustn't it? Okay, so I'm just thinking about. That's not a definitive answer. That's not a definite. Yeah, must have done. Is not a definitive. So obviously, water sinks into the earth and also gets taken up and forced into rain. But also during the ice age, for example, a lot of the planet was covered in ice that must have melted. Does it always make exactly the same. My question. Yeah. I mean, no, because some of it will be hydrogen and oxygen, won't it, at some point? So there'll be the same amount of hydrogen and oxygen in existence, but not the same amount of h two o. And I can go definitive on that, because you could. I could make some water now if you just gave me some hydrogen, some oxygen and a toilet roll holder. Right, okay. And a Bunsen burner. Okay. But, you know, we can do that, can't we? Did it in science at school. You'd have water as a byproduct of a chemical experiment. My point is, at any point of time, over the last 10,000 years, the amount of water on the planet. Yeah. Is all. Isn't exactly the same. No, but it won't be, because you can get a couple of hydrogen molecules in an oxygen molecule, and if you've got the right kit, you can. You can turn them into water, which would. Which would increase the sum total of the amount of water on the planet. And I presume you can do the opposite reaction as well, which will temporarily, you know, I mean, these are microscopic differences. But they're going to happen on a very grand scale, so, no. So the same amount of hydrogen and oxygen but not the same amount of water. All right, give yourself a round of applause. I shall, thank you. Good work. Team effort. Shonas in Ayrshire. Shona. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Shannon. I think it's one that you'll be quite pleased to have confirmed because I was on the point of dialing in when you gave the correct answer to the distribution of newts. Thank you very much. Tell me more. Well, newts, as you said, they're amphibians and as long as their skin is damp, because they breathe largely through their skin, they will walk, they will travel over land, no problem. I'm an entomologist and I'm an ecologist. Studied the distribution and ecology of all sorts of invertebrates. Love it. What about the duck's feet theory? The theory of the ducks? Unfair. Absolutely, yeah, absolutely. We always said duck feet, because that does happen. And are they eggs? Newt? So they are they. Do they have eggs? Do they have, like, frog spawn or what do we know what the. Yeah, yeah, almost exactly like frog spawn. Strings of. The strings of eggs turn into little nutelets. So you got. You could even have a little nutella on your foot, couldn't you? Or nestled into your feathers. Well, you could. Things do get distributed around the world and around the country in all sorts of strange ways. So that's even a saying, is it, in ecology circles? Absolutely. Duck's feet. Where did that come? Where did that one come from, Shona? Duck's feet, James. Duck's feet. Duck's feet. There you go, John in Exeter, stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Another round of applause for Shona. Thank you. Well, we'll share it, but it is a way that things get distributed. Yeah, I love it. You told me your qualifications, but just remind me. Well, I'm an entomologist. I used to do research on the distribution of invertebrates, including newts. Well, newts aren't invertebrates, but I do know so well, I was doing so well. Nuts eat invertebrates, so they're quite interested in them too. Of course they were. Shall we share the round of applause? Do you want to share it? Is that all right? Or do you want it all for yourself? I don't mind. I've had two already today. No, no, share it. Half and half, please. Keep it. There we go. Thank you very much. Well played, China. Tim Humphrey is here now with the headlines. It's 1233. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. And I know what you're thinking, James, you haven't reminded us of the rather resplendent mystery, our board game, which sold out over Christmas and has only recently been fully restocked at mysteryour dot co dot uk dot. You're absolutely right. Did you know there's now a new mystery, our board game, a new ish. When does it stop being new? I'll give it a year. The new mystery, our board game, which was so popular, one of the nicest things about Christmas was the number of people who sent me pictures of the family playing the board game. And it's really good. I didn't have much to do with the formulation of the actual game, so don't worry, it's not sort of amateurish, it's really, really good. It's great, great fun and also quite challenging and encourages a degree of competitiveness. But we completely cleaned out over Christmas and we have now fully restocked. So I think Amazon had a few copies left, a few boxes left, but mysteryour dot co dot UK comma, where you can get it from, did not. Sort of direct from the manufacturer. So do have a look at that. And if you're on your uppers, then try and get on air with a brilliant question or answer, because my favorite contribution of the week will win a brand spanking new mystery hour board game. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC Dot co dot UK. But I had forgotten that. But I haven't forgotten to keep a list of all my callers. So, the favourite so far. Yes, I think probably, yes, probably that I'll keep it quiet for now. Peter is in Manchester. Peter, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. I was watching green planet on BBC the other night. Oh, yes. What do you want to know? What do you want to know, Peter? What did Attenborough. What did Attenborough fail to explain? Well, I saw a lot of cactuses getting pollinated and cross pollinating using birds and things like that, and it made me think. We all hear about how important bees and insects and birds and other pollinators are for plants and the ecosystem and the food chain and things like that. But in my mind, plants evolved long, long before those other animals. So how did plants cross pollinate before pollinators were around? Was it dinosaurs? That was Keith's answer and it's not as funny. Don't take it seriously. That was Keith's answer. It's not as funny as he thinks it was. Because plants evolved before dinosaurs did mate. It's quite. I feel a bit like John in Exeter and I was correct with John in Exeter to be a bit smug about the newts and ducks bottoms and legs. It's just going to be wind, isn't it? Maybe. What do you mean? Maybe it's wind or magic. I don't know. I felt like there might be other avenues because I know some plants reproduce using shoots like strawberries do. But that's not what you're asking. You're asking about how they pollinated before insects. So you're only asking about carried pollen. You're not asking about any alternative measure method of pollination. So in the absence of insects, how does pollen get from a to b onto wind? I suppose that's I'm on fire, don't you? And they use. They use wind for the sea. That's exactly what made me think of it. 01:00 02:00 03:00 04:00 the dandelion clock round of applause for me. How many Zachy I've got today. I'm breaking records. It used to be like this every week. Must have been insufferable. Must have been an appalling. Listen, Peter. Thank you. Sorry. I sense that you weren't that chuffed that I answered your question. I feel I've spoiled your moment of magic on mister. But the final answer will be open again next week. Mark is in Barrow, in furnace. Hello, Mark. Hello again. You are becoming a Professor Howell level of contributor. I feel flattered to hear that. Thank you. Etymology and linguistics being your field of expertise. So what have you got for me? Well, about the question marks in Spanish. Yes. And it's not only in Spanish, it's in other languages used in areas where Spain had control at the relevant times. Oh, yes. And it goes back as far as I know from what I've looked at in the past too, a decision of the spanish academy, which is like the equivalent of the french academy that we heard about last week. And I can't put a precise year on this, but it was certainly in the 18th century and at a time when the spanish academy seems to have decided that it was its duty or its role to rationalize the spanish language somewhat. There's quite a tradition of this in the iberian world. There was a guy called Raymond Loule in the Middle Ages who was actually a Catalan and he invented a whole rationalized language and writing system and it didn't really catch on. But that's the kind of tradition that's involved of trying to tinker with language to make it more coherent and rational. And that's what they did. Because. Because you wouldn't know for sure that it was. You wanted to know at the beginning of the sentence that it was going to be a question. So in a language like Spanish, there are sentences which in writing could be either questions or statements. And in speech you can tell from the intonation, of course, but not on paper. In writing. Yeah, but on paper. So there seems to be in this idea, and they seem to have this also for exclamations as well as questions. And they seem to have inverted the symbol to make it more different from existing symbols. Well, it would be too confusing as well, wouldn't it? So it's. It's. It's a form of parentheses. They've turned it into parentheses with surrounding a clause. Yeah, yeah. It's a way of marking the boundary and telling you which type of clause it is. Love it. And this is not unusual around the world. I mean, hit. In Hittite, there was a word new, which came at the beginning of every sentence and it basically meant, okay, fellas, here comes a sentence. New sentence coming in, new sentence coming. And so this is. This is. But. But it's caught on in Spain partly because of the authority. People say so, isn't it? These days they go, so. And then they say something and then they didn't need to say so. It's a bit like. By no means unusual around the world. Who'd have thought that they were echoing the Hittite tradition? I don't think they knew about the Hittite tradition because they couldn't read Hittite at that time. But it's the same kind of idea. It's the same kind of idea. What century were the Hittites, roughly? So. Oh, this is BC way. BC, yeah. So that we just did what's now turkey. We just did a joke, one of the oldest indo european languages, and they hit height humor. For some reason. They. Sorry, hittite humour. We're doing Hittite humor today, Mark, you don't get that on many radio. Don't get that on many radio shows, do you? Most unusual Hittite humor. Yes. Thank you, mate. Another round and just remind people of your qualifications. Professional linguist for many years. Round of applause for Mark, the professional linguist. And in fact, speaking of Hittite humour, I was wrong, wasn't I, earlier when I said humour was the american spelling in wordle yesterday. H u m o R. That is the american spelling of humour, as in the sense of humour. But a few of you reminded me the humours, as in the sort of four things that make up humanity. The humours. H u m o r is very much a british word. So silly old me. You should have seen Jones the engineer playing wordle earlier. Honestly, if a brow could be knitted any more than that, then, because Jones the engineer still works on Nick's show, we've got Keith. Because obviously shows have grown to such enormous stature now that I need my own crack team of operatives. Although I let Eddie Mayer borrow Keith in the afternoons. But Joan's the engineer playing wordle. That's a sight for the ages. It really is. Tony is in Belfast. Tony, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Tony. I was wondering, how long do letters sent to the 1922 committee remain valid? That's a nice question, because there was one bloke claiming they'd been withdrawn and then he was asked for evidence that he knew of any that had actually been withdrawn and he said, oh, I haven't. I don't know, actually. Sorry about that. And again, we're back to what happens when you start defending liars. Stay forever unless you withdraw them. I wouldn't like to think that Bojo would turn up in six weeks time when 54 letters are in and say, well, that letter was six weeks ago. That one's out of date, like a pint of milk that was past itself by date. I imagine they stay there until either the vote has been conducted or the sender has withdrawn it. But we'll get that confirmed, or, of course, denied for you, Tony. I like that. How long does it. Does it stay live? A letter of no confidence submitted to the chairman of the 1922 committee. Very topical political question there. We'll allow that because Tony's not ten. Obviously we follow Zahawi's rules when it comes to political opinions and if you are of school age, then you're not allowed any. Absolutely not allowed opinions. We're also going to start burning books soon because that is the direction of traffic. Will's in Camberwell. Will. Question or answer? Question, please. James. Harry on. Will. Why do MRI scanners make such an interminable racket? I've been living with MS since the mid noughties and MRI scan every. Every couple of years, perhaps every other year. And a couple of weeks ago I was lying in this torpedo tube thing with foam earplugs in my actual ears, a massive pair of headphones, and it was uncomfortably loud. And I just thought, it's been like this for decades. Everything else in life, cars, cupboard doors, everything's getting quieter and more better. Well, not so much airplanes. Airplanes are still pretty noisy, aren't they? Well, I haven't been on one lately to compare that. You don't have to be on one to hear it. Will they fly over your head, mate, seriously, stick your head out the window, I suppose, but, yeah. Star Trek next Generation. Captain Picard would say, scan the planet for life forms and it take two or 3 seconds, no sounds, and they'd say, no life forms, captain, why can't we just scan me without making such a racket? I presume in part it's because there's no cost benefit ratio in making them quieter. It's such a sort of niche market that no one has said, you know what we need to do? We need to make the MRI quieter, because. Waste of energy, though, isn't it? Yeah, probably. Probably it is. It is probably a waste of energy. So I like it, though. Why are mrIs. So we'll get an answer to why they're so noisy, but what will be left hanging will be the question of, well, why don't they fix it? Because they could almost certainly find the technology to do so, to which the answer will just be supply and demand, won't it? And cost benefit ratio. But it's something about the mechanics of it, the engineering of it will explain why it's so noisy. Hopefully we will find out, will, and hopefully, I don't know, that we might be able to launch a campaign to make MRI scanners quieter. I've been in one and they are flipping noisy. They're telling really, really odd noise as well. Unlike anything else, I would say. It's coming up to quarter to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. So we've done the water question, we've done the a green question. We haven't actually done the green question, have we? Not officially. We kind of worked it out unofficially. So do two people see the same. Do they see the same identical color when they look at the same thing? Two organs? We have a dominant hand, a dominant leg. Do we also have a dominant eye or a dominant kidney or a dominant other thing? Zero. 345-606-0973 do other animals, any other animals laugh? Done the question mark. We've done the Morse code. Have we got anything else? Anything else on the list? I think we covered everything. It's 1245 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time. I share this with you because I get sent this stuff by people who know what they're talking about. And you still have to rely upon a media and a political class dominated by people who haven't got the first idea what they're talking about. In 2020, the EU passed a mobility package aimed at streamlining costs and working conditions for hauliers and drivers across the EU. Parts were already implemented in the last two years, and in February this year, the next phase is implemented. The latest change in conditions means an increase in eastern european drivers salaries to bring them in line with western Europe and a change on taxations. Further changes coming into effect will be how often drivers have to return to the vehicle registration home country, as well as having to leave the Kabitaj host country after a maximum three operations in a seven day period, for a four day cooling off period before being allowed back in, and a tightening of administrative requirements. So one of the things that the people possessed of rather gammony views like to say is, oh, it's made life better for lorry drivers. It obviously hasn't. But there is the EU introducing legislation that will actually make life a lot better for eastern european lorry drivers. 1249 is the time. Speaking of idiots, here is someone called Paul. I can hear James O'Brien's smug private school brain exploding when someone cleverer than him rings into his Thursday lunchtime mystery hour when he tries to go one better than the super intelligent callers. It's like listening to David Brent trying to take back ground. And Paul, who tweets asouthbankworld or one word has as his Twitter profile, enjoy conversation and friendship. Dislike bullies and aggression. Oh, Paul. Steph's in Wimbledon. Steph. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Steph. It's about the organs and whether we have a dominant organ. Yes, the answer is no, we don't. Although I have to caveat that response, that we have to assume that both organs are actually healthy organs. So if we do have two lots of healthy organs, then no one is not dominant, and then the other, they actually work on a 50 50 basis. And if you're going to ask me, then why do we have two, then? Well, the answer is that if you lose one, then the other one can take over the function of the other. Yeah. And, I mean, eyes are the best example of that, aren't they? So you're. Well, no, they're not, actually. But in terms of one being better than the other, but it being accidental, because your prescription might be different according to each eye, but if it's your kidneys, then one is going to. And one's a bit crooked, but the other one's going to have to work a bit harder. Yeah, but it's not de facto dominant. It's not de facto dominant. And to be perfectly honest, even with eyes, ultimately they should be both the same, because if you have perfect vision, both eyes are exactly the same. The reason why one is dominant might be more dominant than the other. That's all to do with the nerve endings and which side of the brain is more dominant for any individual. Yes, indeed. Qualifications? I used to be a nurse. That'll do nicely. Round of applause, please, for Steph. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1251 is the time. Alec is in Redwich. Alec, question or answer? It's a question for you, James. Carry on. Alec, I was listening to you a couple of weeks ago. Yes. And you were talking about your hometown of Kidderminster. Well, not just a couple of weeks ago. Most days. Especially after Saturday. Especially after Saturday's travesty. Do you want to know something outrageous, Alec? I don't know what made me think, but I thought, what a strange name, kid of minster. Yes. And then I thought, wait a minute, there's a York minster. Yes. There's a westminster. Yes. And Redditch. Sorry. Kidderminster used to be a famous carpet town. It did. And there was a famous carpet called Axminster. Yes. Do you know what strings it all together? Yes, I thought you might. What is it, then? Well, I mean, you've kind of answered it yourself, what you've done. You've missed out one town that is on road signs not far from you, which would be Lempster, or, to pronounce it phonetically, Leo Minster. It would be. But it just means a church or a monastery. Okay, so kidd minster means Kidder's church, and kidda would be. Because I think we're in the doomsday book. Kidder was a kind of anglo saxon tribal chief, and when they first settled in on the hill, it was Kidder minster. Kidders. Minster. Kidders church. Okay, there is West Church. What else you say? So York Minster is the best way of explaining, because it's still called an actual minster, York Mister Cathedral. But it's called a minster because they've never moved on from. I might be in a viking, I don't know, but it definitely just means church minister because it looks like monastery. Yeah. Doesn't it? As a word, Minster monastery. Very closely related. Yeah, well, I'll take that one as well. I'll tell you what, just outrageous, isn't it? But you thank you, Keith. Thank you very much. It's actually kid of church harriers, then? Kid of church harrier, sort of. But do you want to know something outrageous? You want to know something outrageous or not? You know West Ham came to Kirimitz on Saturday? Yes, I watched the game. It. How cruel can life be? How cruel, indeed can life? But they. I think everyone at kiddie thought that West Ham, what with them being owned by very, very rich people and having wage bills. We discovered this week from the cat kicker, having wage bills of 125,000 pounds a week, we just presumed that they'd let us have their share of the tv money and they didn't. Nothing. Not a sausage. That's disgraceful. I thought so. Everyone's getting upset. I hope this is true, by the way. I hope they haven't suddenly sent a check, in which case I'll be happy to apologize, but everyone's getting upset about the cat kicking quite rightly. I mean, good grief, that's just disgusting behaviour. But actually, I think what West Ham should really be getting hauled over the coles for is a failure to let kiddie keep up their share of the tv. Makes it make a huge difference to a club like kiddie. It's not going to touch the sides at West Ham. So why didn't West Ham automatically have a share of the tv money? No, they've got a share of the tv money, but they should give it to us because we're so small and tiny. So kidding how he is getting nothing, then we get. You're spoiling my story, Alec. It's their share of the tv. Usually a big club would, as a gesture of, you know, bounty and generosity, if they weren't too busy dealing with the cat kicking midfielder, they'd let kiddie keep the cash. That sounds nice. Let kiddie keep the cash. That would start hashtag let Kiddy keep the cash. But anyway, there you go, Alec, you kind of sucked a bit of the marrow out of that anecdote. I feel you've had enough rounds of applause for yourself today. This can only be half at one. You're quite right. No, you're a very cautious award. Thank you. How many is it, Keith? Now, today? Five. I had a half or four and a half. Thank you. Alec Collins in Liverpool. Colin, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Yes, carry on. Yeah. So you were asking about mris and why they're so noisy? Yes, indeed. Okay, so you're sat in a tube inside another tube. Yes. And in between the two tubes is the device that goes around constantly to create multiple layers of a slice of your. Effectively. And when you put them all back together, it gives you the 3d image. Right. So as it goes around, it's making the noise of it being propelled round. Plus also the magnetic resonance. And effectively, if you put something between the tips of it and the body, all you're going to do is diffuse the image that you get. So it's technically hard to diffuse the noise. Oh, okay. Yeah. So, I mean, it's the engine then, really, that is. Yeah. It basically makes a full loop of your body, like lying inside a lawn mower and wondering why it's so noisy. Or a spinner on the washing machine. Even better. No, even better example. Even better example. Cool qualifications. No. Not working healthcare tech, though. No. That's your qualification. Don't worry, you don't need. It's not like you need a bag of gymnastics award for certificate or anything like that, is that. I mean, so it would not even be possible to make it quieter or, I mean, you're re engineering the bit on the outside. Of course you are. You'd probably be another million pounds a machine to make it slightly quiet. And how much do they already cost? I think it's 1.2. The last one that somebody broke on my watch. There's not going to be any. Someone broke it. How much trouble do they get into? Yeah, lots. Crowd of applause for Colin. Thank you. I have made one mistake today. Apparently the cat kicker is a central defender, not a midfielder. My apologies for that. Nobody's perfect. 1257 is the time. Mark's in Bromley. Mark, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. James, pleasure to speak to you always. It's the animal. Laughing yes, it's a rat. Of course it is. Well, I know of a rat, anyway. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And others. But the qualifications. The qualifications. A little bit down to you. It's a book you recommended called how to love animals in a human shape world by Henry Mance. That's it. Of the Financial Times. It's a lovely book, isn't it? It is lovely. Very informative. Like your good self. Well, I don't know. I make some of it up. Henry doesn't. All Henry's stuff is true. I throw in the odd Earl of Dartmouth just to keep things. Just to keep things interesting. Lovely answer, Mark. Lovely qualifications. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. Very much. Vicky's in Hamilton. Vicky, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Vicky. So you were asked earlier on about if we all see the same colors. Yes. And the answer, very simply, is, no, we don't. My dissertation was on color blindness. So some people see, some people only see black and white, but it's a really small, tiny percentage of people that only see black and white. Some people see kind of blues and oranges, and some people see sort of more blues and yellows. And so, yeah, we do all see different shades, which is why people have arguments with their spouse about which colors match in the living room, which is what I should have realized at the beginning, in order to answer the question from old Angus, isn't it? But you've got it. Qualifications. I know you've already told us, but tell us again. Yeah, my dissertation was on coloured blindness. Round of applause for Vicky. Thank you. Have we done everything? We cleared the board. What a vintage. We didn't do the. When does the letter to the 1922 committee run out? Do you know shields? I'm afraid I don't see. A man would have pretended. A man would have pretended to know the answer to that. I'm fascinated by the color thing, though, because I have. I may have bored you about this before. I have synesthesia. Oh, yes. In a very mild way. Yeah. Okay. Because I know it can be quite an intense thing that mines not. I see numbers in color. Wow. So when I think of a number, it's in a color. Gosh. Yeah. No idea why. That's lovely. Yeah. What color is for. It's yellow. I could do this all day, but I don't know. I don't know how interesting it was. Once you get to ten, people start saying, what about when the two come together? Do they have both colors in? No, they have an individual colour as well. Even up to like 463,212. What color is 460? Isn't it strange? I know, it's bananas. They're yellow. Yellow anyway, from me, Sheila.