Why do clocks go clockwise?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. It is time for the first time in 2019 to launch our weekly adventure, our weekly journey into the unknown. Half a dozen calls on the screen already and I didn't mention it since 10:00 this morning. Well done. Clearly been itching to get these questions up in front of the nation over the Christmas period. The way it works. I shall explain briefly. The way it works is this. You have a little question, or possibly even a big question, maybe a medium sized question burbling away in the back of your brain, and you know there must be an answer to it. It might have been something the kids have said over Christmas. It might have been something that just popped into your head while you were watching telly, or you might have been undertaking your PhD studies and come up against a particularly thorny problem that you can't solve alone. The point is, somebody else alive will be able to solve your problem, answer your question, and there's a fairly strong chance they will be listening to this program as well. So you ring in, you ask the question and then they ring in and answer it. The only rules are these, don't be boring. I'm allowed to break that rule before any clever clocks points out the hypocrisy of that instruction. And don't be repetitive. I'm allowed to break that rule before any clever clocks points out the hypocrisy of that instruction. Do you see what I just did? That was boring and repetitive. Yeah. Wasted. Wasted. Pearls before swine. Honestly. And the. I'm just hearing some breaking news that Seaborne freight have now updated the terms and conditions on their website. The power of this program is becoming almost unbearable. It's like crossing the streams in Ghostbusters or opening the Ark at the end of Raiders of the Lost Ark. They've now changed them and shortened them. So you know what they're doing now? They're hoping Chris Grayling won't notice. Seaborne freight, while we've been on air today, have changed the terms and conditions that we identified as having been cut and pasted from a takeaway food delivery site. And they've done it while we've been live on the radio. And now they're hoping that Chris Grayling won't notice. Do you know what's really worrying? He probably won't. Back to mystery hour. Don't ring in and ask any questions about Chris Greyle. So that's how it works. You ring in with a question, someone else knows the answer, they ring in with the answer. Okay, so the number you need to join in is zero. 345-606-0973 that's the number for questions as well as answers and the. I think that's it. Should I just crack on with it? I'm a bit distracted by that seaborne freight story, actually. Have we got terms and conditions on super ships dot co dot UK? Could the person who's done super ships co dot UK get in touch with me, please? This sounds like a tannoy announcement in Sainsbury's. Could the person responsible for cleaning aisle 14, please? Could. So can we put up some terms and conditions? Can we cut and paste them from Deliveroo? Can we do that? Or would we be veering into slightly difficult copyright territories? I don't know. You might. No, Paul, in London, you're not allowed to ring in and ask how Chris Grayling still has a job. Will he notice? Seaborne freight, 14 million quid, cut and pasted its terms and conditions and then changed them when it got called out on this radio station. So much control. Mistria. Vanessa Teddington. Question or answer, Vanessa? Question, please, James, carry on. So, I hear on LBC all the time about your sister stations. Yes. Why are companies and stations, why are they called sister? Why not brother? Or if they're a distant one, why not cousin? Second cousin thrice removed. So, our second cousin thrice removed station radio X, where Chris Moore's plies his trade every morning. Of course, they will be joining us for the celebration of the global awards. Is it ships? No, unfortunately not. Well, no, I think it probably is not. Not my ships, not super ships. But we always. We give. We give a female identity to vessels and ships and it's probably just transmuted from that, hasn't it? So you talk about a sister ship in a fleet, possibly a ship is a woman, a female of the species. But you're not going to take my pontifications and burblings as an answer. I can tell already. I don't know. I don't blame you. So, why sister, do we have brother? Anything. Anything non human? Do we ever talk about a brother institution? A brother? Oh, I haven't. I haven't thought of any. Me? No. No, I haven't either. Bizarre. Well, there's my question. Let's see. Let's find out. Why ships, why sister companies, why sister stations and not brother? Zero. 345-606-0973 Ben's in gold is green. Ben. Question or answer a question, James, please carry on. The person who invented clockwise, why did he invent it right to left. Why not left to right? Or where's the whole thing of clockwise come from? That is one of the worst questions we have ever had on mystery hour. How did you get through? Why? It's a good question. Well, you might as well ask why, you know, I don't know. Cars drive on the right or something like that. I didn't know. Even that's a better question. In America, they drive on the left. Even. That's it. Yeah, you're right. Even that's a better question than yours. Why do clocks go clockwise? Yep. All right, I'll put it. I mean, I feel bad now. I thought you were going to laugh in a slightly embarrassed fashion when I said it was awful, but you actually sound like I've affronted you. Why right to left? Why not left to right? I mean, there's two answers to this, or there's two reasons why I don't like it as a question. The first is, who cares? And the second is you don't care. So it's not really a proper mystery. Nobody cares. Nobody ever looks at a clock and thinks, why is it going clockwise? Mm hmm. Do they? Do you really care? Not really that. You see, I knew it. I can read it from here. No, you just don't care. Mister Harry is not a sort of opportunity just to sort of get on the wireless and say hello. If you want to do that, ring in during the other hours. Mystery hour is a really important academic exercise in increasing the sum total of human knowledge across the population. If that turns out, and the ruder I am to a questioner for asking what I consider to be a rubbish question, the more likely I am subsequently to apologise and have a small slice of humble pie. So I will acknowledge that possibility whilst saying, that is pants, mate. Absolute pants. Why sister stations? And why do clocks go clockwise? It'd be so it's the planets in it, it'd be the moon or something. I don't even care. Neil's in grays. Neil, come on. Hello, James. I'm wondering what happens to all the old mobile phone numbers you no longer use? Basically, I've just changed my phone. I didn't use my number anymore. Yes, so the number I used to have, what happens to it? It stays dormant. I don't know if there's a time limit on it, but it stays dormant for a period and then it may be reallocated at some subsequent time. You feel they would run out in numbers by now, really? In theory. Well, you will remember the old one? Numbers, London, they have to change you. Didn't they put no pre. Oh, they did, yeah. No, you're absolutely right. There's got to be a certain amount of numbers they can use. If you have a finite length of number, which is usually 511 numbers long, isn't it? So, I mean, that's quite a lot of options. But no, I mean, the answer to your question, and I can't remember why I know this, I think possibly I was quite an early adopter of a mobile phone and I think my old number popped. I think I rang it once and it rang out. You know, I nearly said the number out on air then. And that would be. Could you imagine if you, the poor soul who had it ringing off the call? So, no, that's the answer is, if anybody knows what the period of time is, then we'll punt that out there. But they lie dormant for a while and then they can get reallocated. Oh, brilliant. Thank you very much. Thank you, Neil. And you've reminded me, actually, because I just had an image of someone who's got a phone that they need for their work. I need to say hello to someone who stopped in the street yesterday, pulled the van up so you could lean out the window, say hello and shake my hand. I'd say hello to Jack. Very busy at this time of year, Jack, because he's a heating engineer, so he's probably elbow deep in a boiler at the moment. I won't even know that. I kept my promise to try to remember to say hello to him. And I should also say hello to Jay, who I saw in Wagamama's in Leicester Square on New Year's Eve. But I can't remember whether you're going to be back in Barcelona by now or not, but I know you'll be listening either way. So that was. That was a lovely thing you said to me, Jay. 1211 is the time Rob is in new cross. Rob, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Rob. Doors. James, I've been trying to get through on and off for months to ask this, and it's really bothering me. Why does every door have six panels normally that look like they could be glass panels on a porch door, but they just have wooden panels with, like, concave or convex, whatever you call it. I mean, not every door, just to be pedantic for a moment, when you start looking more. Most doors in Europe have this on front doors, interior doors, yes. No, a lot. A lot of doors do. I mean, the door I'm looking at now doesn't. Do you mean. But. I mean a sound. Residential. Okay. Not office doors, but residential doors. Your bedroom doors. I can see what you mean. It's like. It's like they are like panels. And is it not. I mean, is it. Is it. Is it. Is it not just style? I mean, so that's what I'm wondering. Because I'm wondering, can you, like, replace them and put glass into them? Is that why they do it? Mass produced them and you can take them out and put glass in for your porch tour or. Is there a reason. I really like this question. Well, I've been trying to get through for months to ask it, because in the summer I had dust all over them and I thought, what was the point of them? I thought, it looks nicer, but only because that's what we're used to. Some of our friends on our street don't have a panel door. They're the only ones on our street who don't have a panel door. And so it looks a little bit odd, frankly, I don't like it. I hope that's not a rude thing to say about one's name. I'm with you on this, James. I like a panelly door. And yet if we were the only ones with a panel door and everyone else had an unpanneled door, then possibly we'd be the ones that looked a little incongruous and out of place. There you go. So what's the reason? What is the reason for panels on doors? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Okay. Things are looking up after that ludicrous question about clockwise. Did I get a round of applause for the mobile phones? Come on, Ivan. New year, new you. Well played. Thank you very much. And then panel doors. So we've got sister stations. Why is it sister institutions, sister company, sister business, sister ship? Never brother. And the question about clockwise clocks. Matthew's in Charing. Chairing. Where are you, Matthew? I'm in Charing, down near Ken. In between. I've never heard of it. It's only a tiny little place. Oh, clearly. Is it any good? Anything to do with Charing? Cross or not? Oh, he's gone. I bought him into submission. Stewart's in Dover. Stewart, question or answer? Can we get him back from Charing, please? Otherwise he might get cross. Sorry, Stuart. Question or answer? Hello? It's an answer. Yeah, I hope so. Yes. It's the sundial question. Sorry, I was giving it away. The arm. Of course it is. Yeah, it's the direction the shadow goes around on a sundial. Oh, you're good. Now, here's the question now, stu. Yeah. Has your answer rendered that quite a good question? I think it probably has. I think you're probably right. I knew that was going to happen. If you're going to make a clock, you copy in sundial, which you should tell the time, and everybody's used to the shadow going around in that direction. I did refer. I did refer to planetary motions while dismissing that question as rubbish. But that's. That's a very poor attempt to restore some of my sort of credibility, isn't it? Because the answer has turned out to make the question quite a good question, or at least a better question than I gave it credit for being. Yeah. I mean, obviously he thought of that as a question at all. Because you don't care. No, but you just work. Did you just work it out or do you have particular qualifications in this field? Well, I just. Basically, I just thought it was obvious. Yeah, all right, pal. You know, getting on pretty well. There's no need to spoil it. Yeah, the question. So, qualifications. Thought about it a bit. James? Uh, yeah. Round of applause for Stuart. So, there we go. That's it. We're not even quarter of an hour old yet. First mystery hour of 2019, and I've. I've already let myself down. I've let. I've let mystery out down. But most of all, I feel I've let you down. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. What do we still need answering? Sisters. Why are companies and ships spoken of as sisters and not any other relation? Most obviously brothers? I think second cousins thrice removed would be a little bit absurd. And why do doors have panels on them? I don't know why. I really like that question. I kind of have this. It's almost a fetish, which I think could be loosely described as, not in a saucy way, your sausage. Just something that's a peculiar interest of mine. I like the notion of humans taming the world and a panel doors is one of those things that probably has an explanation that will be really interesting. I don't know. I could be completely wrong. It might just be that it makes the door stronger. But even that would be really interesting. You see, I was drawn to that question. I hope it turns out to be as good as I hoped, because the question I said was rubbish about clockwise clocks actually turned out to be rather good. So I owe Ben and Golders green an apology. Ben and Golders green. I'm really sorry, mate. That was a little bit previous of me. I hope you appreciated the comedy value, but I'm not in any way pretending that the comedy value, should you have found any in it, dilutes the offense of my dismissive nature or dismissive attitude to your. It turns out, perfectly reasonable and indeed rather interesting inquiry. Matthews in Charing in Kent. Back to Matthew. Thank goodness you're here. When you got cut off, did you get cross? I'm getting a bit angry. I thought you didn't know where Charing was. And it's a lovely little town. I've just looked it up. It is a lovely little town. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Can you turn the Internet off? Good. I hope so. It'd be quite nice just for six months, wouldn't it? We see what happened. I can see a lot of benefits in it, but. So is there a saw? I mean, you've got the World wide Web, which is Tim Berners Lee. Right. That which came out of. Where's the Hadron Collider, Matthew? Switzerland. Yeah, there. I think it all. I don't know why I'm just burbling now. I didn't mean. I don't think that's going to be easy. Right. Thank you for being so polite. Well, essentially telling me to shut up and move along. No, I know there's different servers you could turn off, but is there the whole thing? Is there one switch? I haven't got any plans to switch it off. I very much doubt it. But. Because. But I don't know why. It just feels unlikely, doesn't it? But I love the question. So we need a really, really clever answer, don't we? A really qualified answer on this one. Yeah. We need Mister Bernard lead to phone up. That'd be nice, actually. That'd be nice. You're on. Yeah. Can we turn it? Can you turn the whole Internet off? And it's more likely to be done by a hacker than it is by a person acting in good faith. But the questions are. Peach zero. 345-606-0973 is a number that you need. Ben is in Toronto. Ben, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on, Ben. Okay, well, it's just a weird one. I was chatting with my wife, but we've got a couple of cats. Oh, yeah. And whenever you're on a callum, you make that kissing noise, like. And it attracts them. But I've never heard any cats make kissing noises. You hear them? Meow. You hear them. You've never heard a dog whistle. I know that. Boss said, why does a whistle attack the dog, then? That's not your question. You were talking about cats and kissing. Well, then you pull the dogs out. No, you did. Who let the dogs out? So why does kissing attract cats? Because it sounds a bit like something they encounter in the natural world, is the obvious answer. But you want to know what? Yeah. Well, I've never heard a cat making a kissing noise. Is it near. Is it the nearest to a meowing noise that we could make? No, because you can make the meow sound. Can you? Yeah. Yeah, but that sounds weird. Maybe they associate it. Did they come the first time you do it? Or do they learn to associate it with a little tickle or a treat? I know. No, just don't he. Damn. And he told me we've got a couple of cats now. Yeah, but when they were tiny kittens. When they were tiny, tiny kittens, did you get. I don't know. That's why I'm ringing you up. Yeah. I'm not the font of all knowledge. I'm merely the conduit through which all knowledge passes. Ben. Very crucial distinction to draw. I shall find out for you. Why do cats like kissing? That might need a little bit more explanation. Zero 345-606-0973 there's a listener in Toronto. I like that. Mike's in Marlowe. Mike, question or answer? Yeah. Good morning, James. It's an answer. It's your door fetish. Oh, splendid. Yeah, I'm regretting that word now, slightly. Can we replace. Can we replace it with area of interest, please? Yes, of course. Thank you. If you look at a door and you split it into three with the two outer styles in the center mullion, you get rid of. They're all six inches wide. You get rid of 18 inches of door and then you've got your panels. You couldn't do that in one big plank, if you think about it, because the plank would have to be massive. So it's actually about timber size and about using all trees to build lots of things. If you think of the spanish doors, they go even smaller, don't they? A paneled door is not a single piece of wood. Sure. No, no. You can get fake ones now, which are stamped hardboard. But the original question was about those panels could be glass, they could be timber, they could be anything, really. But it's about constructing a door from lots of skinny bits of timber, rather than one great big piece. It's got nothing to do with crosses and books or anything like that. No, I don't think so. No, no, no. I got. I just saw that on a text. I don't normally involve texts on the mystery, but I might change that in 2019 just because I'm feeling quite. I'm feeling quite dangerous, Mike, this year. Absolutely quite dangerous. Break the rules. Exactly that. So people were saying it's got something to do with crosses and books being represented in the. No, no nonsense. Nonsense. I mean, if you go back to stately homes where they had the prime timber, the biggest pieces of timber, they had the biggest doors, didn't they? Yes, but when you get down to normal people, normal doors from the smaller, smaller pieces of timber. Qualifications. I've been a builder for forever and a day and hung thousands of the things. So, yeah, pretty reasonably well qualified. I think you're right. Round of applause for Mike. Thank you. Great start for the year. I like that as well. Kind of obvious when you think about it. 1224 is the time if you've got a question. If you're new to this and you now see how it works, you can veer, as you now know, from the sublime to the frankly ridiculous in the course of your questions, and we'll try and get an answer to everything, whether it's silly or serious. Zero 345-606-0973 Robert is in Croydon. Robert, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question for you. Go on. Why does the radio not have a watershed moment? So on the tv after 09:00 you know, there's colorful language, stuff like that on there. So on the radio never does. What happens if. I don't know whether he still does or not. But Clive Ball used to swear like a trooper on his show, which I always presumed was linked to the watershed. Possibly. I mean, I've never listened to that. You are missing out on one of the biggest treats that british. No, I mean it, pal. Seriously. One of the biggest treats that british radio has to offer. If you've never listened to Clive, it's almost like flagellating yourself with a. With a rusty spoon every morning. You should listen to it, otherwise you're punishing yourself unnecessarily. But anyway, he never saw I was making that up like that as well. Music shows and that in many ways, it should be more important. It should be more important to have a watershed because you can have your. I know kids have got tellies in their bedrooms now, but when watershed televisually became a thing, you'd be much more likely to have a little transistor radio under your pillow, wouldn't you? Than a little television screen. That's it. So I was just wondering why. Who decided that they shouldn't? Or even if there is. I mean, I think there are some things I would do if I was on at night that I wouldn't do if I was on air, but it would be more subject matter than language. And there's stuff I sometimes. Nick. Nick taught me this Ferrari stuff that you have to bear in mind. There's a child in the car with mum or dad as they listen to the program. So, you know, in the run up to Christmas, quite obviously there's a path you don't go down and sundry other sort of areas where you have to be conscious. And Nick sometimes says, if you've got. If you've got a child with you at the moment, you might just want to turn the radio down. But that's just him being well mannered, isn't it? And. Yeah. Yeah. That's not consider. It's not a rule. 09:00 it's not. It's not part of the broadcasting code. And I think. I think it. What to saying that children might be there is in the broadcasting code, or maybe it is. Nick's probably read it and I haven't. That would fit with my other experiences professionally. I'll find out for you. Why does radio not have a specific time at which, after which I can do stuff that I can't do before? That's right. That's right. You're on. No. Cheers, Robert. I like that. 1227 is the time. So, the watershed, the Internet. Done. The door panels and the sisters. Is there anything else? So why are ships. Why are businesses, sisters, sister stations? Why is it possible to turn off the Internet? And why doesn't the radio have a watershed? And why do cats like kissing noises? I think I might have worked that one out, actually. But I shall wait for someone else to come on board so that they can get the, um. Applause. Applaud it. Luke is in Bromley. Two Luke's today. Luke, question or answer? Hi. There's a question. Hello. My question is, can someone please tell me why the bathroom lights are so loud when switched on or off? It's very light that late at night. You need to be. The quietest is actually the loudest. Here is an example. Gone. That is loud. No, that is loud. Now, let me compare to another light. Ready in the house. Yeah. Did you hear that? No. And the thing is. No, you missed it. When I said no, you should have said, exactly. Well, exactly. Thank you. Yeah, it's all right, carry on. You can't even do it. You can't do it quite. You try not waking people up and you do it slowly, you know? Yeah, yeah. You could use your phone light. You could just take your phone to the loo. Well, it's hatter, isn't it? I mean, you're half groggy. I mean, one could argue that maybe it's like, hey, you have arrived, you know. Yeah. And then come wake up enough so that you don't miss. But I just think, look, it's. I felt about you, because I did find this question in the other day and I want upstairs. It's gone. But they've actually replaced it now with the guy in. This is what he did. I'm now upstairs. Yeah. Whoa. That is the latest technology. That is a modern one. And the answer is going to have something to do with water and electricity, isn't it? There's a reason why you have to have a different type of light in a bathroom than you do in a bedroom. That's the reason for the chord. But why the reason for the stupid sound is so, like. I mean, where are we? 1228. Okay, I've got a minute. How can you date the point at which this became an area of particular interest for you, Luke? I think it's a daily question. No, but when did you first start? Because, I mean, obviously everyone listening recognizes the reality of what you described, but it's unlikely that many people. I was brought up this way. I was brought up to accept the sound. And I think only one year ago you started questioning it. You started questioning it. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Stop it now. Seriously, it's making me a little bit uneasy. That's the modern one, you know, and that's it. Well, you know what? We've got our bathroom lights outside the bathroom, mate. We. So we've got normal switches outside. We flick them on. But, you know, that's because we're really posh. Some people are fans that turn on as well. I've got one of them as well. I've got one. I've got one of them as well. But that's on a different switch. So I don't have to turn the fan on to turn the light on. Oh, no, I do. In the upstairs bathroom. That's actually quite annoying because the fan stays on for ten minutes. And if you pop up for a Jimmy riddle in the middle of the night, you've got to listen to the fan going for the next ten minutes as well. But the switches are outside, so you have to rely on, basically, light that comes through the window or you have to literally tell everyone that you have arrived in the toilet. Well, I don't. I mean, you've got quite thin walls. Have you? At home, they're quite robust. Well, I don't know who can actually hear the light go when you're coming into land. Anyone who's in the house, I mean, it's upstairs that will have an interest up there with the doors. Old Mike in Marlowe's already shot his bolt on the door panel, so he won't be able to ring in. But a builder will know the builder, or a sparky will know the answer to that. Nice work, Luke. Thank you. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Can you turn off the Internet? Why do cats like kissing noises? Why is Luke's bathroom switch so loud? Not just his. We'd like to extend that to all bathroom switches of a particularly noticeable volume. And why are institutions and or ships always sisters, never brothers? I don't know whether that's as good a question as I thought it was at the outset, but I was profoundly wrong about the clockwise question, so I shall keep my counsel. Mike's in haze. Mike, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. So the. Can you switch off the Internet? Yeah, unfortunately, you can't switch off the Internet. You say unfortunately. And if you could switch it off, seaborne freight would be able to remove forever all evidence of their appalling incompetence in setting up a company with no ships. That's true. But then super ships wouldn't get any business. Oh, this is true. Super ships dot co dot Uk. What if that actually becomes a thing and I don't make any money out of it? We digress. Michael, what are your qualifications? So I'm a what's called a ccis. Cisco certified internetwork expert. So I have studied for hours and hours and months and months on how the Internet. I'm glad you added months and months, because hours and hours wasn't filling me with confidence. I went to LSE for three years, mate. Actually, 4 hours and hours isn't really going to get you over the line. In total, there's 16 hours of exams to complete the certification, so. Wow. But in layman's terms, basically everything you type into an address actually converts to a phone number, what's called an IP address. Yes, I get that. So if you go to google.com comma, you're actually traversing probably 20 to 30 hops or different nodes within the network. Nope, lost me completely by Ivan's nodding. Ivan's very clever. So I'll judge from his facial expressions whether or not you're making sense to someone who knows a little bit more than I do about such stuff. So basically, if you go to Google from your studio and Leicester Square, you would then go to. Your local exchange would be a hop, and then you would go to sort of BT's data center in London, and then you would go out to Ireland to a data center, and there's always redundancy built into that. So even if you took down one of the data centers in the middle of that path, it would then just route. It's called open shortest route. So it always tries to find the quickest way to get through all the little stations you got to go through. Got you. And, I mean, somebody might ask, why couldn't you just shut down all the little stations? And you'd have to go around them one by one, would you? So to speak. You'd have to go around them one by one. And you'd also have to shut down all of Google's domain name controllers. So most computers look to Google first. So when you type lbc.com, it goes to a DNS server to say, okay, what's the phone number for this. This name? So you'd have to shut those down as well. Yeah, I get it. And say that fancy phrase again that describes what you do with your qualifications. Cisco certified internetwork expert. Cisco certified Internet expert. That's a round of applause. Thank you. Very welcome. Short answer? No, but Mike clearly knows of what he speaks, and it would have been a little bit odd if you could have done, because, well, not to put too fine a point on it, somebody would have done, wouldn't they? Things being what they are. 1238 is the time James is in Shoreditch. James, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, James, to the light switch in the bathroom. Why are they so laid? Well, there's a couple of different things. So bathroom is hard surfaces, so it's a lot more. The acoustics are going to reverberate the sound a lot more. Yeah. But also you also your pull switch, you're not directly touching it, obviously, because the electric and stuff. Yeah. No, no, no. So your rocker sound of approval and enlightenment. All right. Okay. So I thought you were going to put me down. No, your rocker switch in a wall. Yeah. You'll say you're touching that. Yeah. They'll be quieter if they're buried in the wall. Anyway, but also because you're pressing on that with your hands, your body is absorbing some of the energy. So not as loud. Whereas your pull switch, when you pull it, it latches and it sort of just springs more. Yeah, because it has to in order to. I don't know if it's going to satisfy Luke, but the fact that you can't touch it yourself means that you have to exert more pressure. Yeah, but also, like, some of them will be double pole switches instead of single pole switches. So there'll be two mechanisms in there. I mean, that's probably less. Less so. But wood, but. Yeah. Can you get quieter ones? If it was buried in the ceiling, it would be quieter. Yeah, but that's just muffling. That's muffling. Yeah, but that's muffling the loudness, isn't it? I've got a slightly indecent thing on my screen. I don't know which one of my colleagues has written this. It says, why is the pull switch louder in the bathroom than in the bedroom? I have a pull switch in both rooms. Yeah, that's what they said to me. So that's, that's. That's where the hard surfaces come into it. So the acoustics of the room. So they'd probably be the same in laboratory conditions, but the extraneous variables render one quieter than the other. If you. If you put the same switch in, you know, in the bathroom, if you swap them around, they'd still. They'd be. They wouldn't change in volume. Yeah, I get it. Yeah. And the shut. So this would be because you can't touch it. Clicking. I mean, you can't obviously touch a switch. That's why it's up there, so you can't touch it. And so you imagine two tins on a string. That's all, you know, the old classic. Yeah. So it's echoing. So you've got, essentially, you've got a sound box above the switch in the ceiling of the bathroom and it's just echoing, whereas in the ceiling of the bedroom, you've probably got lots of more. There's going to be insulation, sofas. Yeah. If you're comparing it to a rocker switch. Yeah. It's going to be. The rocker switch is normally buried in the wall and when you're touching it, you're absorbing that. It's a different construction of switch and you're absorbing some of the energy when you're pressing it. There's no nice comp. Strong. I think I know the answer to my next question qualifications. I used to be an electrician and I'm now a sound engineer, so I've got a bit of a double. That's strong double there. Yeah. What are you working on at the moment? Anything exciting? A popular cooking tv show. That doesn't really narrow it down, does it? These days, if it's not cooking, it's antiques. Why can't you tell me? You're just being coy. MasterChef. Oh, wicked chef. I love that show. Do you? Yeah, absolutely love it. One of the best shows on telly. Ah, wicked. Round of applause for James. 1241 is the time. Cheers, mate. Take care. That's a lovely answer. I hope Luke was happy with it. Dale's in notter. Dale. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Dale. So I have recently seen my first white hair and I was tempted to pull it out. Not like a giant rabbit. You mean on your own body? Right, okay. My mother said, don't pull it out. My wife said, don't pull it out. And I was wondering, is there some science behind not pulling out white hairs because it creates more, apparently, or is that just no wives tail? So your old wife and your old mum both said, don't pull out a white hair, because then more white hairs will grow back? That's right. Where was it? Where was the hair, if you don't mind me asking? Your hair on my beard. You wouldn't pull a hair out of your beard, you lunatic. That really hurt. Well, just wonder, how long have you had a beard? How long have you had a beard? Oh, well, say 15 years now. Really? Yeah. You're younger than me, are you? I am. Because I've got quite. I've got quite a sexy salt and pepper thing going on at the moment. I'm waiting for that to happen. Yeah, well, you're not going to get that if you start pulling out the salt ones, are you? But I want to maintain the old, the old young man look at the moment. So, fair enough. I was tempted to pull one out and I wonder if there's any science behind that. So pulling out white hairs, does it create more or is that just. It depends if the follicle. I don't know. Anyway, I like it. It's a good question. I like it a lot. Well done. Let's find out. No, seriously. Zero. 345-606-0973 all we need to speak to is someone who's pulled out a lot of white hairs. And now looks like father Christmas. Dan's in gold is green. Dan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah, basically, you ask a question. This one. The guy asked the question about the clockwise, and you went to right away bash him. It's actually one of the most fundamental questions in science. I've already apologized. I've already eaten humble pie and I've already apologized. Are you. Are you a friend of Ben's? Because you're both in gold as green. I think you're in the same house. Check this number out with Ben's got his mate Dan to ring in to embarrass me even more than. I'm embarrassed already. Carry on. No, so basically the answer is very simple. I study planets and I know that scientific that basically when the sundial goes, it goes from right to left. Yeah. So it's a. So no, I apologize for right away starting like that, but that's like that actually got something interesting. If you put a clock on your head. Go and get me a clock. Yeah, it does. What? You put a clock on your head, are you going to be. What? No, no. What's it called? No. So basically, that's basically what I'm trying to say. If you think. You think it's just like a stupid, random regular question. So it's. It's the person that's whispering to you should. Should have been the person that rang in. Because doing it this way around means that none of us can follow what you're saying. That's all right. I'm trying to be friendly and kind about it, but it's. It's like having slight chinese whispers, isn't it? So I can hear the person whispering to you. I can hear the fact that you don't really understand what they're telling you. And I can hear you telling me that I have to put a clock on my head. Yeah. Yeah. What I'm trying. What I'm. What I was trying to say is that. That when. When you have. When you have. When you. When you. If you learn this about the sundial. Is that Ben in the background? Is that Ben that's whispering to you? Ben is nowhere. I have no idea who Ben is to begin with. Well, he's the one that asked the question. So you do know who he is, but not on a. I know. I know him from hearing LBC. Yeah. Okay. I'm actually. Cuz I'm actually from Florida. I'm here on vacation. That's. That's allowed. I mean, that's not an excuse for having someone whispering to you while you. While you. While you try to answer a question live on the radio, but you know, some people go to Buckingham palace or the Tower of London. You've chosen to do this. That's cool. Yeah. So I was listening. I heard very popular radio, radio channel. I heard this question. So I said, it's just a basic answer that, that a lot of people, that people don't even realize the basics that you want. You want. You want to see how the. You want to see how. You want to see how the. That. You want to know how that. What if you want to. What the time is, you don't just go to your iPhone. Sometimes the time comes from somewhere. Yeah. And the way the time comes, it comes from, from the right hand side. It always turns around like that. Yeah. There we go. So that's that. Give him a round of applause quickly, please. There we are. I mean, you don't get many of them in Florida. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour continues. Questions still in need of answers include. There's not a lot left. Why do cats like kissing noises? If you pull a white hair out of your beard, do you really get lots more white hairs? And why do we talk about sister stations and sister ships? Why is it. Why is it sisters? Oh, and is there a watershed on the radio? I've got a horrible feeling I've embarrassed myself professionally. Who said again, Martin is in Bexley. Martin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Good afternoon. Hello. Go on. Ok. The chinese satellite that's landed on the dark side of the moon, how is it sending signals back to Earth? Moon's always in the way. Yeah, but I mean, it can go around the moon, can't it? I mean, I thought it landed. Yeah, but it goes as. You just sort of like, kind of like a ray or a wave. A wave. I'm older than you, I think. Here's the thing, all right, have you got. Are you, are you speaking to me on a mobile phone? Yes. Do you know anyone who lives in Australia? Yeah. Have you ever rung them with your mobile phone and it's just a satellite connection to get from me to them? Yeah, because the earth is in the way. Yeah. The chinese thing is on the moon. Am I detecting from your slightly dismissive tone that I haven't been quite as clever as I thought I was being with my australian phone call? Parallel. Because I'm going all in on this. I'm going all in on this. No, because, look, here is the moon, here is the Earth. It can easily reach from the dark side of the moon. It can reach the satellite? What satellite? The one it's using. It's not use, it's on. It's on the ground. It's on. It's on the lunar surface. Yeah. And it sends a signal to the satellite that's over there and then the satellite sends a signal to the Earth that's down here. Come on, mate. Easy peasy, lemon squeezy. Which satellite is over the moon? Over the moon. Doesn't have to be over the moon. It just has to be within sight of where the thing has landed, which means it will be in orbit around the Earth. Yeah, and always facing the wrong way. No, I'm a hundred percent right on this. I'm going all in with my satellite based knowledge. Come on, give me your best shot. Come on, swing at me. Come on. Come on. If you think you're hard enough. Wherever the Apollo missions went, beside behind the moon, 8910, eleven, all the ones that went round, there was a communications blackout. Did we have satellites in those days? Communication satellites? Yes, we did. No, we did not. For your great big fiber, we did not have any satellite. Would have to be in geostationary orbit over the dark side. No, it wouldn't. Not over the Earth. No, it wouldn't. Draw a picture. I have. I've got one here. And then there's the moon and then there's the satellite and then there's the earth. Yeah, easy. Solved it. It's not going to work. I've just drawn it. I have a quick answer for you anyway. What, to your own question? No, somebody asked this question. Probably. Why it hurts. No, you can't. You can't do that. Not allowed. No, no, no. Not allowed. Not allowed. Is that question good? Is it? I mean, Ivan is very clever. I should tell you, it's quite a change since the days of Jones, the engineer trying to contribute technological questions. He sometimes forgot which end of the pencil to use. But with Ivan, I'm telling you now, the man is a genius. And if he's nodding along to my explanation about how the message gets from the dark side of the moon to the Earth, then I'm. That's why I got so cocky. So if it's all horribly wrong, I will take all of the blame. But I'm pretty sure that it should be obvious, shouldn't it? I mean, how else. How else did they. Martin, come back. Martin. I'm here. They've got a special satellite, mate. Have they? Specific to the mission. Really special. Well, just specific to the mission. Not only did they send a probe to the dark side, of the moon. They stuck a satellite into the relevant orbit in order to act to facilitate the transmission of communications from the dark side of the moon to the planet of Earth. Okay, I'll take that. Round of applause for me and Ivan. Thank you, Martin. Happy New year. David is in maid of ale. David, question or answer? Answer. Go. In terms of the sister station and all this sort of stuff, it's based on the old concepts of maritime admiralty or the law of water, which is also what the banking system sits on. The way it refers to many things as, you know, well, vessels in business. So when you look at a company is also deemed as a vessel, it's referred to as she or her or, you know, or its activity is referred to as being dissolved or gone under. So it's all to do with maritime admiralty. Yeah. And, I mean, I could now say, why did they do it? Why did the ship start being named? Well. Well, I'm not. That might even be figureheads, you know, it could be something as simple as that. It could. You put a figurehead on a ship, it's usually a woman. Well, yeah, but remember back in the day, women weren't really allowed on ships as such, really, were they? So they were figureheads on the ship. So they remember, of course, at the front of the ship. But what I'm trying to say is that's probably what. Why it is been being so cherished in a way where if you've got a company or some sort of commerce entity, you often refer to it as she or, you know, her or whatever, so. But I do know it's based on maritime admiralty traditions and. And these sort of things. I have spoken to people work in the banking system, very senior levels, and this is the same thing, what they say to me. Round of applause. 1254, George is in Redditch, in Worcestershire. George, question or answer? Hello, Bromsgrove. Actually, James, I know Bromsgrove. Well, jolly good. First time I managed to get through to you. You're very welcome. I usually can be found in Chattersley Corbett when I go back to visit my mum, which is in between Kidderminster and Brumscrove, of course. Very close by. Yes, indeed it is. What have you got for me, George? I've got an answer for the chinese craft that's landed on the moon. I hope it's the same as mine but with more authority. What's happened is that the Chinese have sent up a separate satellite. Yes. Which is orbiting specifically around the moon. Yeah, that's what I said. No, I think you said it was relaying things to satellites which are going around the Earth. No, that's what I said first. You must have rung in before I finessed my answer, George. I might have just gotten. No, that's fine, because you've got to speak to the producers, you've got to. You've got to be checked and frisked and searched before you can come on air. But I did reach where you have now led me, although Ivan helped me, so you're going to get the round of applause. And is that satellite there specifically for this mission or is it there anyway for other reasons? Specifically for the mission? That was the phrase I used, George, specifically. I did actually use that phrase as well. Specifically for this mission. Yeah, they do it with Mars rovers and things as well. You sometimes have a relay satellite which is obviously closer to Mars and possibly on the other side of Mars, so that they can get the signals back to Earth. Yes. And your qualifications are? Retired physics teacher and keen, enthusiastic amateur astronomer. That would do nicely. Round of applause. Where did you teach physics, if you don't mind me asking? Are we allowed to mention laces on? I thought you were going to say that. When can I ask when you retired? 2007. And how long were you there for? 28 years. Well, then you would almost certainly have taught some of my pals. I probably did. Who attended Winterfell House school in Chattersley Corbett before moving on to Bromsgrow. I know that one as well. I thought you might. Well, there you go. Give me a round of applause now that we've done the biographical detail. Thank you, George. Colin is in Ricellab. Colin, question or answer? Answer, James. It's radio watershed. Carry on. I do hospital radio and the children's wards. The radios are all turned off at 09:00 that isn't really an answer to my question. But it is. It is interesting. It's radio watershed real, isn't it? No, it's noise. Bedtime. Wow. They can't listen after nine even if they wanted to. Yeah, I know, but that's because it's bedtime. It's not because it's award. So you don't start. You don't start getting all potty mouthed after 09:00, do you, Cole? Never. You don't start playing band tracks like Relax by Frankie goes to Hollywood. No, that'd be before 09:00 so there is. It's not a watershed in the sense of decency or similar. Well, it might be because of the content. Like, we have a request show between 830 and ten. So then that tends to. You don't want the little children hearing you saying, this one goes out to snookums. Well, you could look on the bright side of life and things like that, which you sometimes get requested people who may not play the radio edit, you're in a bit of trouble. So they do tend to put a watershed on. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Colin, because of all the great work you do, not because of the answer that you've provided. Thank you, James. You're very welcome, Colin. 1258. Speaking of potty mouth, Sheila Fogarty will be with us momentarily. Vieri is in Rome. I thought dogs were your thing, Vieri. Well, yes, but not just dogs. Animals in general. I mean, the, the question. But you're not called Doctor doctor animal. You're called Doctor dog. No, I'm not called Doctor dog. That's true. Carry on. Specialize in dogs. Why do cats like kissing noises? Well, it's not just cats. And the key is in the pitch, high pitch noises. We are all programmed to react to high pitched noises. What? Babies make kittens and puppies, because that's when the mothers go and help them for whatever reason, they're making a high pitched noise. So we are programmed to hear that. And that is why the cat reacts to the high pitched noise. But it's also the other way around, because the cat has actually conditioned the owner to make the kissing noise to make him come. So I don't know who's been conditioning who, but I think they've sort of been conditioning each other. That's what I said. The cat has conditioned the owner to call him making kissing noises. Yeah, that's what I thought. And your qualifications are? Animal behaviorist extraordinaire. You can find out more about Vieri's work, chiefly with dogs, although he extends to all mammals. What's your website? Drdog.com. It's Doctor Dr. Minus dog Eu. Well played. Round of applause for Fieri. Great work. He's going to be catching up. You're going to be catching up with Professor Howe soon. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Right? I'm fine, thank you. Are you sure? Yeah, totally. All right, carry on. So I do the handover now? Do the hand over. Okay. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Time now for Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much indeed, James. He's pleased for himself. I'm delighted to know if you enjoyed this podcast. Hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.