Why is my hair so long?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. And I tell you what, it's a. It's a right old something for everybody today, isn't it? Mystery hour up now, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. I don't know if I'll bother giving you a lengthy introduction to the rules because the switchboard's already blown up. Seriously, every single phone line is double booked. So I think, should we just start cold? I need to know. I need to give you a little bit of housework, a little bit of furniture, for example. Hold onto your hats. There's a massive prize available to the best contributor this week on Mystery Hour, and that prize is a brand spanking new edition of the Mystery Hour board game, featuring my beautiful face on the box and questions that have been culled from the archives to bamboozle, perplex, delight and entertain you. And I haven't, you know, I haven't had anything yet about the board game, but delicious praise. People love it. People of all ages and particularly younger people who weren't expecting to like it, but love the element of the game where you can actually try and invent a definition, try and invent an answer to a question in the hope of fooling your older relatives into choosing your answer instead of the correct one and accruing points as a result. So, the mystery Hour board game is available from Mysteryhour dot co dot UK and sundry retailers as well. But you can get your own copy, brand spanking new and absolutely free by being brilliant on Mystery hour this week and submitting my favourite contribution, your terms and conditions. Time for the grown up. But the terms and conditions are available at LBC dot co dot UK. And I think, with no further ado, we'll dive straight in, shall we? Oh, except to say that that little tribute there to Bill Turnbull from John Humphreys got me right in the heartstrings. I never knew Bill Turnbull, but I can tell you that he was clearly a broadcaster who was as wonderful off screen or off air as he was on air. And you can't say that about all of us. In fact, I'm not sure you can say it about many of us, but he was absolutely. I'm acquainted with a former producer of his who is in absolute pieces today because he was such a lovely, kind and conceited colleague. So, as well as all of the stuff that happened above the waterline, as it were, he was. He was every inch the gentleman below it as well and will be sorely missed. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Some compliments for the music there, Keith. Biena said epic music. It's called a bed. That bina, that bit in the background, wasn't it? It was pretty good. I liked it. Should we crack straight on? Ben's in Stafford. Ben, question or answer? Hi, James, I have a question. Carry on, Ben. When did we start rating things using stars? Oh, I quite like that. Were Shakespeare's plays five stars? When did stars become a symbol of quality? Would it be with. I mean, newspapers? Probably, isn't it? I mean, you've got to come up with some way of a shorthand denoting of what the critic thought about something. So I'd be amazed if it wasn't newspapers or journals, printed journals of some description. But, um. Yeah, I mean, crikey, it's the sort of thing you'd wish you'd got a royalty for, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Let's find out. When did we start rating things with stars? Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. That's from Ben. Ellen is in Sunderland. Ellen, question or answer a question? Carry on. It's probably going to be a really stupid question. Don't worry. I wondered why flowers close up at nighttime so I knew the benefit of them opening up during the daytime. But why don't they just stay open? Why? Why do they close up? I like that. I like the way that, like you, I found myself thinking, that's a bit of a silly question. And then when I tried to answer it in my head I couldn't. Which means it's not a silly question at all. I mean, because there's no. Because I was going to say, well, there's no insects around to fly into them and pollinate them, but so what? Yeah, so why don't they just stay open and wait for the morning when they'll come back? Dry out, maybe? Could it be dry out? It retains moisture. I didn't know if it was to some way of keeping what's inside warm, but then I didn't think that that would be much of a difference of warmth. Wouldn't have thought it mattered to a stamen or whatever it is that lurks inside a flower. You're on. I say, why do fly up flowers close at night? That's a lovely question, Ellen. Thanks. What's going on in the background? My children are wanting more lunch. What are you giving them today? What are they having? One's having cereal, I'm embarrassed to say, and the other one's having a sandwich. That's all right. I mean, you down a slippery slope when you start giving them separate meals, you know, it never ends. I've got a vegetarian and a carnivore now, Helen. They're both vegan, so at least I'm like halfway there. It's been awkward. You are. You are nine minutes after twelve. Nothing beats a bowl of cereal for lunch sometimes. Actually, Keith never stops eating. I don't know what it is at the moment. I think his energy levels. Unbelievable. Surprised you can't him in the background asking for more lunch. Steve's in Sheffield. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. For years and years I've been a cyclist and I've done loads and loads of miles off the road next to waterways. And I've noticed over the years, have you ever cycled from Birmingham to Brentford? No, but I've cycled the Leicester Grand Union to Brentford and Limehouse on more than one occasion. It's amazing. Is it really hard? Oh, what? Which way would it be easier? The other way. No, I mean, I. The towpath. There is so much. You have to have good bike handling skills and get your bike punch approved as much as you can, but do it. Do it. It's amazing. From Leicester. Is that. Would that be that, which branch is that? So you. The Leicester arm down towards Foxton locks? Yes. Okay. Which is so wild. It's agricultural wilderness, you know. And then all the way through, through Limehouse, up to Brentford. Ransomware. Yeah. I recommend if you want to view it on YouTube. Yeah. Duville, Duviolette, Duduvele, double te. Guys that. They do a lot of this stuff. And he did ride recently. Did he really? Oh, you've made my day. Do you want me to know something funny? Do you want to know something funny? Oh, please, it's not that funny. But I'm one of those people that I love spotting things in films and tv shows. I say, oh, I know that street. I know that. We've been there. We used to live there. And it drives my family potty. Because I'm usually wrong, Steve. I usually say, look, look. And then we pause it and look. And it's not. It's nothing at all. There's a little video doing the round. I think it's from the TSSA union about railway ownership. And it's five or six years old, but it's gone viral with the current round of industrial action. And there's a bloke in Germany, a woman in France, I think, and a bloke in the Netherlands. And the bloke of the Netherlands is walking alongside a canal, and he says something like, we want to say thank you from the Netherlands. Because it's about the fact that. That a lot of british railway companies are owned by foreign governments. And so when we pay our railway tickets, we're subsidizing rail travel in countries like Germany, France, and Holland. And can you guess, Steve, given the context of our conversation so far, what I spotted and the dutch gentleman walking alongside a canal that was purportedly in the Netherlands. It was in Brentford. It was in Brentford. Oh, wow. They filmed it here. Obviously, they filmed it. It's a british trade union. They filmed it here. It was Brentford. Brentford was. Was playing the role of Amsterdam for the purposes of that trade union. Little. Little video. And do you know how sad I am? Well spotted. I got on my bicycle. I got exactly that. I got on my bicycle and pedaled down there. To be a hundred percent certain that I had actually spotted it correctly. Just around the back of the Holiday Inn on the. On the little sort of layered bed. Anyway, I digress. I bet you can't when you're in, you have to find it. Anyway. Do you want my question, James? Yes, I think we should. Now, frankly, Steve. So what I've noticed is I'm a very courteous cyclist. I don't use a bell. I slow down. I say, can I squeeze past? Etc. Etc. And I've noticed over the years that women seem to have an intuitive sense. Even before they can hear or see me behind, before they are aware of me. And they move over and sometimes they drag the bloke with them. But blokes tend not to do this. So women have a greater awareness of. It seems to be. Now, whether that's some sort of deep limbic thing from, you know, previous times related to other animals or not, I don't know. But I just. I would love to hear the answer from. So would I know one of the poetic scientists. Could it be your pheromones, perhaps? You're possessed of particularly pungent pheromones, Steve. And they're like. They're like blasting a course down the towpath as you. As you pedal. The variable would be wind direction, wouldn't it? Not whether I've washed or not. Hyper vigilance. Could it be that women spay, even if they're with a. With a man, they're in that they spend so much of their time in public worried about threat that they have a slightly more finely tuned antennae than we do, the men do. Yeah, I think it's quite a raw, darwinian thing. I do. You know, I think it probably is. The problem is you might have just discovered it. It may not have been something that's been scientifically researched or anything like that, but if it has been, someone will hopefully be able to provide us with the answer. Yeah. But I wonder if there's a relationship between this and other factors. For example, start to reflex. Yeah, fascinating. Du valette. Thank you so much. I was so nervous when I started. Well, that's why I. That's why I started talking gibberish to put you at your east, Steve. You see. Yes. About canals. Oh, no, it wasn't gibberish. It's fantastic. Brentford and all of that. We've got it. And I've got the Duvalette tip off you now, which I'm going to have a look at after the show. You'll love it. I will. Anyway, thank you, mate. Thank you so much. Take care. Cheers, Steve. Happy peddling. Natalie is in. It's a long one. Logan Rock in Trenin, Cornwall. Hello, Natalie. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. So, I am currently sat on top of Logan Rock, overlooking the sea, across to the Minaxia and Porsche. Oh, how glorious. Sorry about that. It is glorious. It is absolutely beautiful. Had to climb up to the highest point to get a signal, and so if it's a bit windy, I apologize. Since I was introduced to mystery era a few months ago. Thanks, Jay. I've tried to bring my portable speaker and get to as many beautiful, wild and rugged places as possible to listen to it, because this is a place to do my best pondering, of course. So I was walking around the coast path from land's end yesterday, and when I walk the coast path, which I do a lot, it's my favorite thing to do. I can't walk in a straight line. I have to go off and explore every rocky outcrop, all promontories and the headlands. And I'm looking on the Os map, and some of them are named and some of them are sort of really unmistakable, and you can see why, but others aren't named. And I've always wondered this over the years, and I'm walking, why are some outcrops named and others aren't? And if I wanted to name one, how would I go about it? I like the second bit. You're only really allowed one question, but I think the second one might just leech into the. Into the first one. On this one, it's going to be. It's going to be sailors, isn't it? It's going to be smugglers and fishermen and the bits that. The navigable bits are given names so that you can tell someone where you're going to be, whereas the bits that are not navigable or the bits that aren't, I mean, that's going to be part of it, don't you think? Probably, yeah, for sure. But Logan Rock is different, because Logan Rock is an astonishing sort of geological freak show, isn't it? I mean, it's. It's that. So that's got a name. Some of them are, you know, some of them are obvious and unmistakable and of course they're going to be named. Yesterday, I walked past one huge, big rock balanced on another, jutting out to sea. It was like a sort of a broken heart and it didn't have a name. And you would think that would be so recognizable. Yeah. So, I mean, headlands and. And rocks, sort of notable, notable things that could. Something more or less identical a mile up the coast has got a name and this one hasn't. How come? Is what we're really saying, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I love that. I love that. Well, I'm just trying to place treen, is it southwest cornwall, isn't it? Yeah, it's just, um. Just south from London. South. I'm literally looking at the. Last night, I was sat up on a rock and I was looking at the Minak theater, all lit up, and I could hear singing floating across the sea, which was pretty special. That's gorgeous, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Right, you're on. You're on the list. Thank you, Natalie. Happy hiking, and we'll try and get you an answer to that question. How come some of them have got names and some of them haven't, even though they are geologically more or less identical? And actually, I am going to allow the second question on that because I quite like the idea of O'Brien's fall or O'Brien's rock or something like that. How do you get. Can you get your name on something? Mate of mine at school, anecdote central today. Keith's loving it. Mate of mine at school, his dad was in the army. He was a cartographer in the army, got a mountain named after him, found it, and therefore was able to name it. When I say found it, obviously, as a teenage boy in a post colonial public school. That's what we thought. He found it. He didn't, did he? There were already people living there who already had a name for that mountain which they were perfectly happy with, thank you very much. And then along comes. Along comes the british army and they actually stick a knee like the Victoria Falls. You don't think the people living there had a name for that enormous waterfall smack in the middle of their doorstep before we turned up and named it after Queen Victoria? It's 1217, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 20 after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC. When did star ratings get introduced? Why do flowers close at night? It may be unique to Steve, this experience, but quite a few of you have reminded me of the phrase eyes in the back of your head. So it's clearly a known phenomenon. But do women have a greater awareness of cyclists on this occasion or anything coming up behind them than men do? And if so, why? And how do headlands or rocky outcrops or geological, exciting geological phenomena get named? How come some of them have names and other ones don't? Nancy's in Bermondsey. Nancy, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, Jane. Carry on, Nancy. So it's a flower question. Oh, good. Yeah, go on. Flowers close at night to protect the pollen and they open of a day because that is when they get pollinated and the insects are lying dormant of an evening, so they close up to protect it, otherwise it would blow away. Otherwise it would blow away. It would get really wet. It can still get wet in the daytime, but obviously they need to be open for you. Got to take your chance. You take your chances in the daytime. Pick your battles, Jay. Pick your battles, Nancy. That's exactly right. And that's a qualifications. So I've run my own business for a long time, floristry. I've done a course in floristry and horticulture. So where is it? Are you still. Are you in business now? Are you? We're in business now. We're just surviving in Bermondsey. What's it called? It's called Greens florist. Right. Get yourself down to the greens florist and sort yourself. What's nice today? What's nice today? What's. We've got some beautiful tropicals in today for I to do a coffin spray for a well traveled gentleman. So we've got some lovely tropical flowers in today. So there you go. Get yourself down. Lovely. Thank you, Nancy. Round of applause for now, well, lovely, you take care as well, pick your battles, pick your battles, I love that. 22 minutes after twelve is the time Ben's in Middlesbrough, Ben, question or answer, James? It's a question, carry on, Ben, so if you think about current housing stock in the UK, and you think of the styles of the houses, people would say it's a gothic house, victorian, arts and crafts, so on and so forth, what would sort of, the current housing stock is being built now, what would that be called? I think you could still, hopefully isn't simple answer, no, I don't think it is, but we need to just qualify it slightly, because you could still build a gothic house now, I think gothic is more architectural style than era, yeah, so it's a style, or I guess, same with arts and crafts, but you say that's georgian, that's victorian, are you asking about houses or are you asking about the era? What are we going to call this era? Or. Yeah, yeah, I think, yeah, we'll go with that, because it can't be elizabethan, because then you say Elizabethan and you'd think, you'd think black and white, Tudor, kind of, that's what I was feeling, the simple answer was going to be timbering. That's good. Haven't embarrassed myself, no, you definitely haven't embarrassed yourself, but I'm fascinated now by the difference between the housing question and the era. This is, I think officially, this is the second elizabethan era, but you're not going to look at our house, are you? Can we have two questions again then? You. What? Can we have two questions again then? Not exactly, no, I'm just trying to, I'm trying to finesse it down to one question, because it would. This is the second elizabethan era, but what would a house typical of this era be called? Exactly? That's it, that's it, I like that, actually, and it's been such a long reign that you actually have a fairly clear idea in your head of what that house would look like. Certainly anything post 1950s, sixties on a housing estate, homogenous, boxy, we've never seen anything like that before. I'd love that, thank you, Ben, I like that question, what would a house from this era be called, if anything? There may not be an answer to that question, Danny's in Nottingham, Danny, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Danny, before. Before I got a massive fan, both, both of your books got a board game as well, love it, thank you. Fantastic, I'm glad you've excluded yourself from winning another one now, Danny. Well, you can never have enough. Maybe you can just send me the supplementary pack instead. We'll see on the horizon. Cheers, man. But I've got. It's a bit of a niche question, so. Almond fingers. Yes. Are you familiar? Is it. Is it a mist? Is it a mister Kipling delicacy or. Not quite, because there's almond slices with icing, but I'm thinking almond fingers are just the ordinary baked ones. Okay. Yes. Your producers hadn't heard of it? No, I've heard. I've heard of it. I'm not. I'm not gonna lie. I was thinking of the almond slice when you said that initially, but an almond finger is a biscuit as opposed to a cake. I think you can get them in Iceland, can't you? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You can. Yeah. So they've got, like. They like, they're like lozenge shaped with one almond. Yes. Yeah, that's the one. Smack in the middle. I've got it. Yeah. And you see, that's. That's actually the cause of the question, is that one in every pack appears not to have an almond on it. Be quiet. No, honestly. How many packs have you checked? Many, many packs. And got friends that have, like, I've told this to. They've been. Had their mind blown. They've gone to the shop, spent 20 odd pound on buying different packets and every single one has had one with an almond. That's not been. There's always. In every single packet of almond fingers, there's an almond finger that has no almond on the top. Yes. Yeah, certainly, certainly that. I've bought loads. Friends have gone out, we've tried to do research on this. Obviously, it's not an answer you can even Google because it just is bizarre. But I can tell you, we've searched high and low and every single one has had one without an almond on. Wow. And so my thinking here is, I'm trying to worry that either. I can't accept that the machine just accidentally misses one. So I'm wondering, is it because this, for me, I love almond fingers, but I take the almond off. I don't actually like the almond on top. So is that one without the almond for me, in every pack, it's got your name on it. Well, this is it. Or is it intentional or is it accidental? Is it a cost saving thing? They think if we put one less almond, we save some money. I'm just wondering, packaging up something to do with the process. Who the hell's going to know the answer to this, Danny? Well, I'm hoping somebody works at an almond finger factory or something. You know, honestly, I've been thinking about this for so long. Like, so long, I've been trying to get in and ring you up if someone rings in from an almond finger factory. I think they're getting a Rayleighota all day long, aren't they? I mean, we are setting our bar. Unless there's many, many more almond finger factories around the place than you and I would credit or believe. But there is. I mean, I'm just trying to find some pictures of them online so that I can test your theory. And certainly the ones I can see, it looks as if one in each packet has either not got an almond on it or got an almond much sort of lurking below the surface kind of thing. What are they like? Are they like the. They're just bisque almondy biscuits, are they? Yeah, they're very soft. So they are, so they might not. Oh, I quite, quite like the sound of that. Oh, they're delicious. I love them. I mean, I can't eat them so, so much now because I'm trying to lose a bit of weight. You're on. All right, I shall find out. For. What do you do with the almond on the ones that you eat when you don't like the almond? The kids, the wife, someone will eat it. You know, someone will get a finger with a double almond on. But me, I don't want it. Waste not, want not. Thank you, Daddy. Thank you for the kind words, mate. I do appreciate them. Why is there always an almond finger with no almond in a packet of almond fingers? It's almost got the makings of a tongue twist to that. The almond finger factory could have a lot of fun with the almond finger factory. What do you call buildings? But I've done that recently. Let's find another question before we crack on. David is in Wolverhampton. David, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Right. It's a very weird one as well. So, I'm just wondering, with a tortoises shell. Yes. If you were to accidentally step on it, would your foot go through the shell, like, say you're cracking up in a chocolate Easter egg, or would. How tough is the actual shell? I mean, I have no idea. So we'll wait for a proper answer. But. But I'm 99% sure that they are a hell of a lot stronger than you would imagine even to think of asking that question. Yeah. The only reason I asked that question is because recently I've been helping a family friend with some landscaping, gardening in their backyard. Oh, yeah. And they keep pet tortoises. Oh, yeah. And a couple of times. You're worried? Nearly, yes. They were in the spot I was about to step in and it happened a couple of times. I had visions of my foot going through it. There's not many things worse than treading on a snail when you're barefoot, is there? So treading on a tortoise in a boot would be similar, I think, in grossness. No, I mean, it's what it's designed for. It's designed to protect it from all manner of. Well, I think it is predation, so I'd be astonished if it isn't incredibly strong. Strong enough even to survive your foot. I shall find out for you, David. I was at London. I was at London Zoo this week, actually, and you can stay overnight. We booked it three years ago before lockdown, at which point the kids were so excited about the idea of spending the night in London Zoo, by the time it came round, one of them was at the reading festival. They'd grown up so much, the idea of spending the night in London Zoo had lost all of its gloss. But we went. The younger one quite liked it and my godsons came along as well and they had an absolute whale of a time. But you can spend the night in a lodge next to the lion enclosure. Did you know that? Yes, I have seen something about that and I think they do it, the natural History museum as well. They do, but there's nothing alive in the natural. You can hear that. What's amazing, what happens at the end of the day when all the. Everyone's chucked out and you're still there. The sounds are incredible because when it's full of people, then the noises are absorbed, but they're almost caught when the lion roars after everyone's gone home. It's. I mean, it is truly incredible. And then there's all the other noises as well. But I mention it, because they all stayed the night, I couldn't because I had work the next day and there was a giant tortoise the next day, and giant tortoises, certainly you can sit on. I don't think it would be encouraged, but the strength of the shell has got to be pretty epic on a big one and on a little one, I imagine. But we shall find out, David. 1231 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headline mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Mark is in Aberdeen. Mark, question or answer, James? I. It's an answer to the naming of topographical features around the country. Oh, you've done it. That's what I was. I was groping for that word topographical. I could sense it. I knew it was there. I knew it was doable. I knew. I just couldn't. Then it was. Well, I came up with some nonsense about phenomena. Topographical features. Thank you, Mark. Carry on. I was trying to think how I would introduce it. Yeah, it goes back to the 18th century, early to mid 18th century, the ordnance survey, when they were surveying the country to make all the maps that we use. Ordnance survey maps, essentially. They went around, they took all their readings, the triangulations and stuff like that. But when it came to naming features, they really just went and asked local people whatever local people they could find. What do you call that hill? What do you call that bit of rock? What do you call that forest? What do you call that river? And as much as possible, they were faithful to what local people used as the names for these features. So if they had a feature, as the lady was at Logan Drop, fine. If it didn't have a name, it's just left blank. They didn't make anything up. They were quite, quite assiduous at how they measured it. You might have slipped in something to name it after your wife or something like that. No. Do you think I'd have been tempted for an unnamed topographical. Topographical feature? But no. I love that. There are funny stories about. There are. Things change things. My daughter's fascinated by the fact that all maps have an inaccuracy on them, or almost all maps have a slight in action on them so they can't be plagiarized. Yeah. Is that true? Ordinary survey do? Yeah. It's amazing. Did you know that, Keith? Keith didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah. You've got a round of applause already. What are your qualifications? Thank you. What are you calling. A lot of hill walking and stuff in Scotland? Fair enough. And that's fine. Those are the phone lines breaking up. I think you're up a mountain now. And finally, is there anything you can do to get something named after you now? Do you know, is there anything that we can do? No, because the maps are all. No, no, the maps. No, the maps are all made now. There might be something, a local celebrity personality or something. I can't imagine the ordinance that we'd want to do anything now. No, I can't imagine. So. So we're not going to be able to get Natalie's noggin named down in Cornwall or anything like that. Mark, that's a lovely answer. Thank you. And I like that. Cause it's sort of linked to folklore. Phone's gone again. Stop it. Round of applause for Mark. 1236 is the time. I like that. That ship has sailed. Something's changed name a bit. But you wonder. Certainly, I spent quite a bit of time in Norfolk and some of the names of the. I don't know quite what the right word would be. The coastline, almost, but the marshes come in and come out and they've got some amazing names which have fallen out of use now, but you can still see them on the ordnance survey maps. And they must have just been named after, like, legendary fishermen or things, chaps like people like that who knew the routes and knew the safe passages. Jess is in channel. So, Jess, what would you like to say? I mean, sorry. Question or answer, Jess. God, I got the wrong intro. I'm getting old. Question or answer, Jess? Question? Carry on. Why does my hair on my head fall out? Yeah, but my hair is not short. Does that make sense? Yeah. So why don't you have any short hairs? Yeah. I mean, if all them hairs are falling out, like, surely my hair would be thinned and it'll just cling on to, like, the last straggly bits of hair. And if you're. If you're replacing old hair with new hair, then you should have a notable amount of short hair growing at the bottom of the long hair, as it were. Yeah. Because surely the new hair follicles couldn't grow to the length of my hair within a day. It would take months. Yeah, well, and then if it's falling out on a notable scale, then you should feel. It should feel thinner. It should feel thinner. Yeah, exactly. That's a very good question, Jess, how long have you been puzzling about this? Quite a while, actually. Yeah. I'm not surprised. Once it gets in there, you can't get it out again, can you? That's cool. Exactly. No. Well, let's find out. I imagine we'll get an answer. We've got all sorts listening. Trichologists, hairdressers. I mean, someone will know the answer to that. But now you come to think of it, it is an actual mystery. Thank you, Jessica. I wish I had that problem. There's no doubt about my hair falling out. So it's all gone. John's in Ponty pride. John, question or answer? Question. Carry on. What I'd like to know is pondering me a little bit in these sort of straightened times. Yes. When the money leaves your bank account with this faster payment, which is pretty good these days, or backs or chaps. And it takes sometimes hours, sometimes days, to get the other end. Where did the money go when it's left your account before it gets the other people. And who's got the benefit of that? Who's investing that money of mine? Does it go anywhere? Doesn't it? I mean, I thought in my account, and I was going into a holding account, so maybe. So we're talking about the gap between you seeing it on your balance being reduced and it being someone else's balance increased. Yes. Are you sure that's not. I thought that was more or less immediate. It pretty well is on faster payments, but lots of other things. Okay. Backs and chaps, particularly, can take these. Okay, you're on. Where is it? And there's someone earning a few. A couple pence of my money in the money, and I'd want to. People in the country, it sure bits. It would soon add up. But then again, someone's doing the work. The money is being transferred, and they need to be paid, don't they? I mean, that system needs to be. It's all. Nobody. Nobody's doing that. It's automatic. Yes, but who's. Who's programmed the computers, John? The one off. Who's paying the electricity bills for the further computers? Well, that's. That's fixed. I mean, don't you mean that fixed is assistant? They need paying, and so perhaps. I don't know, we'll find out. But if there is a few, maybe they do. Perhaps they can justify Bo. Where does he go? Where does. Benefiting from my money, where does it go? I shall find out. Or I shall try to. Thank you, John. Apparently, the question. The question about hair is in the board game. I did think it was vaguely familiar, but I couldn't be sure. Oh, dear. Eileen's in Sandilands. Eileen, question or answer? Hello, James. It's very nice to talk to you. Very nice to talk to you. Brief though. That phone line actually went. Did they both go then? I think both phone lines just went. Oh, no, don't tell me. I'm gonna have to. I'm gonna have to improvise for the next 20, 919 minutes of the program. Get poor old Eileen back there in Sandiland. Oh, dear. Michael's in healing. Michael, question or answer? Hi. Good afternoon, James. I have an answer. Carry on, Michael. In regards to the integrity of a tortoise in its shell. Oh, yes. About a week ago I was dashing out to run some errands and backed my car out of my driveway. No, no, go on. Yeah. Only. Only to be stopped by a passer, by a motorist who proceeded to point to my. Underneath the vehicle and then jumped out and said to me, you've got a tortoise under your car. And I obviously thought he was start raving mad before he bent down and lifted it up right in front of me. It was an absolutely huge one. How huge? In Ealing or in Thailand? It was in Ealing. So. Well, I'm at my mother in law's at the moment, tuning the glass and big shout to her, so I'm not familiar with the neighbors. So anyway, I said, do you live on the road? He said no, and proceeded to throw the tortoise, sit me and drive off. Why? So. And you'd gone over it, had you? Well, I can't say I felt myself go up and over, but there was. There was just no way, given that I'd moved the vehicle from a driveway out into a street only for someone to stop me and I clearly could see behind. There was nothing in the road. It must have somehow been underneath the vehicle and taken. Taken a bit of a knock in some way but it seemed fine and it was all right, it was absolutely fine. He didn't like being held by me. But eventually we found the owners. His name was Henry and he'd escaped from a nearby garden. When you say huge, how big? Like I would say, honestly, probably dinner plate, 25 cm in length. Length 30 cm. He's pretty big to hold and pretty heavy. Bigger than. It's slightly bigger than a dinner plate? Yeah. Well, yeah, I'd say so, for sure. And how did you find the owners? I ended up passing over to one of our neighbours because I had a commitment to get to and eventually they did a bit of a knock around. We knocked on a few doors. I had no luck, handed it to someone who had got some lettuce out the fridge and then eventually it was someone, I think three or four doors away. You'd be fairly. You'd be fairly. You'd be fairly reliable that it's not going to be that many doors away, wouldn't you, with the torsos? Well, exactly right. But apparently he was 30 years old and they were mortified when they realized he was gone and absolutely delighted when he was delivered back there. Done a very good job of looking for him. He said, flipping tortoise, you'd be out the day you come out the door at 1 mile an hour and overtake it. I like it. Qualifications. I nearly ran one over a few weeks ago, or indeed I did run one over perhaps a few weeks ago and the show was absolutely fine. I may, I may allow Michael, a zoologist or similar, to embellish your answer, but you've done enough to earn a round of applause. That's probably advisable. Thank you, James. Have a good argue. And you. Indeed. And in fact, no sooner said than done. Sarah's in Welling, garden city. Sarah, question or answer? It's an answer. It's a tortoise answer. Oh, no, carry on. When my mum and dad moved in 1971, we had a tortoise and it was hibernating and my dad decided to put it in the loft so it was, you know, safe. And of course, when we moved and the moving men put everything up in the loft, it was dropped. And yes, the shell was smashed and the poor thing died. God, no, I was, ah, I know, I mean, I was only four then, but I remember the tortoise vaguely, but it was probably the size of a tea plate. Did you see that? Did you witness the tragedy? No, my, my dad wouldn't. I mean, it took my dad a couple of months to figure out because we moved in March, it was still allegedly hibernating, but he sort of kept going up until I was to get different boxes down and all of a sudden there was just a smell, so. Oh, no. What was it? It was in a box. Was it? It was in a cardboard box with loads of straw and everything else it needed. And how do you know it didn't just dive? I mean, how do you know? How do you know? I mean, did your dad tell you that this, that the shell was all smashed? Yeah. Yeah. Told for many, many years. And it's not. I knew we had a tortoise as well. Yeah, I spoke to him as well. I was hoping that this might have been a story in which your, your childlike sensibilities were protected from the brutality of nature being red in tooth and claw and that your parents had made up a story to soften the blow. But no, my parents were always very honest about, evidently, which was actually. But also this wouldn't soften any blow, would it? I mean, if they said, oh, he's gone away or he's disappeared, that would have been a softening blow story. Not he's fallen to pieces and we didn't really. He's smashed to pieces and we didn't realize until his rotting corpse became impossible. The stench of his rotting corpse became impossible to ignore. Well, that was like you were four. Because your dad, I think. Go on. Sorry, it's your dad. No, they. They always told us the truth about things, so, you know, in a. In a. In a way that, um, you know, didn't distress us, but it was said in like, a childlike way and I. How could that not distress you? Well, it's just, you know, that's how we were brought up. Oh, fair enough. I'm a little bit older than you, James. I know, but still, it doesn't matter how old you are, if you're. If you got a smashed up tortoise rotting in your loft. There's ways. And there's ways to tell your children about it. Ways not to tell. Well, it's done you no harm, Sarah. Clearly. No, I mean, I. I mean, I'm a lover of dogs and cats and I've had sort of dogs, fortunately. What's wrong with tortoises? You can't get tortoises now. It's hard. There was one knocking around ealing the other day. You should have got your skates on. Got yourself down there. I can't. These. Faithful purchase. Unless you were very purchased. If you're on crutches, it's the perfect pet. No, I'd rather have my dog because he's a seizure dog. Well, that's more important. You can't get a seizure tortoise. You're not quick enough. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you, Sarah. Stay safe. I don't. I mean, I don't know that that's definite. I still think you could tread on it and be okay, but if you dropped it from a great height. Oh, absolutely upset me, that story. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is ten to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Dave's in Chichester. Dave, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Good afternoon. Carry on, Dave. Good afternoon to you. It's about the women and with eyes in the back of their heads, women have better. They have better peripheral vision than men. And as a bonus fact, they also see more colors than men do because they've got more cones in their eyes. Which is why when misses O'Brien and you were discussing paints on a chart and she says, which of these two do you prefer? You probably go, they're the same. That's uncanny, Dave. That's absolutely uncanny. And that's. That's biological, that's evolutionary better peripheral visionary. Yeah. The peripheral vision is because men are much more tunnel vision because when they go out hunting, it's useful for them to see straight ahead of them at their prey. Whereas women were often left with. This goes right back to early humans. They were left behind looking after children. So for them it was useful to see predators moving in their peripheral vision. Wow. And it's not because Emma suggested it might be socialization. So women are socialized to give way and men are socialized to believe that everyone will make way for them, which is probably also true. But Steve was pretty clear in the question that it wasn't that they weren't aware, they weren't equally aware of his presence. The woman was more aware of his presence. And also on a canal path, on a towpath. We all move out the way, don't we? If you see. Yeah, exactly. Because it's a small, narrow thing, but women have much better peripheral vision than men. Qualifications. I was defending myself when my wife put something on the stairs for me to take upstairs and I walked straight past it. Yes. And so I went and found out why. And that was it. That's the reason. Yeah, that's it. Peripheral vision. I'm using that, yeah. Round of applause for Dave. Well played, Dave. Thank you. Mind. There you go. Calvin is in Upminster. Calvin, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Calvin. It's about the banking question. So in answer to the guy's question, if it's like a backs payment, then the money still sits in the sending banks account? Yes. Even if it's not in your current account, it's in the sending banks account. So, yeah. So with a backs payment, it takes three days to reach the recipient's account. Okay. Yeah. So what happens? What happens is at the end of every day, well, to go back, all the clearing banks have an account at the bank of England and they settle up by netting off all their incomings and outgoings with each other. Okay. At the end of the day, if it's like a faster payment or chaps, well, that's obviously done on the same day, but with the backs. So the money doesn't sit in anyone's it, it leaves the remitting banks account on the same day, but with the backs payment, it will be like two or three days later that it actually gets settled at the bank of England. So there's no place where it's sitting, possibly accruing interest in the interim? Not really, no. Well, I suppose you could say that the remitting bank has use of the money. But when you think about it, they've got money coming in and going out, so it sort of nets off. It would be very unlikely that they would only receive backs payments in on one particular day and none backs payments out, so it sort of nets off. So there isn't, like, this huge part of it. No qualifications. I worked in the finance industry for about 30 years. Yeah, that'll do. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1254 Duncan is in Hartfield. Should I run through the questions again or should we crack? I think we're doing all right. We haven't got the star ratings one. We haven't got the almond fingers one. Come on. Why did the alma. Why does one almond finger in every packet lack an almond tortoise? We've done hair. We haven't done hair either. We've got to do hair. Apparently it's in the blooming board game. There's an absolute open goal for somebody there. AK is in Harrow, aka question or answer? Question, actually. Why are only 10% of people left handed? I mean, if you have two hands, should be 50 50. It's evolution in it. Yeah. Like, still. Yeah, I think there is a. There is an advantage to being right handed. I can't remember what it is. Well, I had special scissors in school, but that's about it, really. Well, you didn't. You also have to write in a different way. I mean, lots of things you do are going to be a little bit more difficult if you're left. If your left hand is prime. It's got to go. We're back into prehistory, though, hasn't it? Lobbing a spear. Yeah. Well, are you doing that now, though? I don't know. You've got a better answer? I'll take it. Hang on. I'm thinking, mate. Give me a chance. I'm thinking out loud, aren't I? You know, this is how it works sometimes. This is how it will percolate. Percolates to the front of my brain. The answer will percolate. What is the most annoying thing about being left handed? Okay. Oh, smudging paper when you're writing with a bic pen. Yeah, I was going to say that, but that's not going to be an evolutionary thing, is it? Because going way back into the midst of time. All right, well, yeah. I don't know. Why are only 10% of people left handed? Hopefully you'll get an answer. If you're quick, you get a round of applause. Thank you. Okay, Julie's in Chorleywood Julie, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on to the hair question. Yes. Hair grows in a distinct cycle. There's three stages in the hair growth cycle. Anagen, catagen and telogen. And the anagen stage of hair growth is when the hair is actually growing. Then it moves into catagen, where the hair rests. It doesn't grow anymore. And then telogen is when the hair falls out. And that's why your hair falls out. And there are different time limits on your body. For example, the hair on your head, I believe it's a long time since I've spoken about this, is about seven years. But your eyebrows and eyelashes, for example, are only about eight weeks, which is why your eyelashes and eyebrows don't grow as long as the hair on your head. But why do you never. Why, if you've got long hair, do you not have any short hairs? You do. You do. There's just negligible amounts. Correct. For example, if you rubbed your hair and you got static, you'd see lots of little short hair sticking up, you know, much, much shorter than your longer hair. And this is why not everybody can grow their hair to sort of, I don't know, waist length or down to their ankles, for example, because there's only a certain amount of time your hair will grow for before it falls out. Oh, I see. So you're quite lucky if you've got, or unlucky, because you have to have your hair cut more often. But some people's hair grows faster and further than other people's. Yes. And so you're very lucky if you've got lovely, thick, long hair. Then you're very lucky, because most of us don't, unfortunately, which is why there's a booming business in hair extensions. Yeah, I know. And indeed, hair transplants. And hair transplants. Qualifications, Julie? I used to teach electrolysis, which is the permanent removal of hair on your. That's lovely. There you go. Round of applause for you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Stewards inquiry. Now, on the bicycle towpath question. Everyone's complaining about it. Men. All right, well, if you've got a better answer, I'll take it, but you'll have to be quit. Actually, you probably won't make it. Duncan's in Hartfield. Question or answer, Duncan. It is an answer, James. Carry on. It's about the. Why do we name housing? Or what's the housing going to be named? Or what are the buildings going to be named now, compared to Victoria and Georgian and all that sort of thing. It's a bit of a complex answer because you have to look back. You've got 30 seconds. Oh, crikey. Okay, so the Georgians didn't call their own house. The Georgians didn't call their own buildings georgian, the Victorians didn't call their own buildings victorian. They were just modern buildings at the time. Right. So right now, we're not building anything of the post elizabethan or second elizabethan era, we're just building buildings. And they might be modernist, they might be neo Georgian. Neo victorian, yeah. The other thing to remember back in the past, all the ordinary buildings have been knocked down or covered up, so we're only referring to the big grand buildings of georgian and victorian and we're calling them those eras. So basically, right now, we're building just buildings. That's it. I've got to go. Qualification. I know I would have. Round of applause. He's architect. Shouting architect. Architect. Architect. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it. I'm going to give it to Sarah. I know, because if I can't get her a seizure tortoise, the least I can do is send her a mystery out board game if she wants one, we'll find out. Up next, it's Sangeeta Maiske.