Why is lemonade so fizzy?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Hello. Gosh, I mentioned at 11:00 it's the first time I've ever forgotten that mystery hour is on the horizon. What does that mean, I wonder? That could be the first question, couldn't it? I won't allow it, though, of course. Phone lines are already full. I always wonder if phone lines are already full before I've even drawn breath. What am I here for? Could you do it with a chat bot? Of all the hours we spend together every week, this is the one that you could probably do with AI, isn't it? Someone rings in, says a question. AI says something vaguely amusing in response to the material that's just been provided by the caller, and then the phone line is vacated in expectation of someone coming on to answer the question. Which AI is qualified to judge as either being qualified to answer or not. I don't know. It's never going to happen, as far as I know. But I do want you to know that this is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And the number you need, as ever, remains 0345-6060 pause for a bit to hit this bang on time. 973. Should we just crack on? There's a board game. I should mention there's a prize for my favourite contributor. The management's decision is final. There is no even vague algorithm for Victor selection. It's entirely at my whim and even whimsy. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK. Dot. And that's it. And of course, if you want to buy your own, you can go to Mysteryhour dot co dot UK, where you will shortly be able to find out more about the imminent booster pack. I think we're calling it a booster pack. 250 more questions and answers. Thank you. Yes, what I thought as well, thank you to everyone at Big sky games, where you can either augment your existing mystery hour board game or play it as a sort of self contained exercise in and of itself. 1207 is the time that'll do it. Should we just. Yeah. Can we just crack on? I think. Yes. Paul's in Glasgow. Paul, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Can drum patterns be copyrighted? Oh, that's an interesting question. Do you know, like when guitar players, bass players, they copyright the chords, you can copyright a tune, so obviously you can copyright a tune or. But you mean a drum track, really? Yes. Like plagiarism, like red Sheeran thing. He copied my song of my notes as such. Does it work with drums? You did just say if then, didn't you? Yes. Yeah, I. Good God. I thought we'd let a libel through. I thought you just accused Ed Sheeran of plagiarising your song, Paul. I'm sorry. I have no problem. I didn't even know you were a musician, mate. Can you think of a really famous drum track? I mean. Cause sampling drums is gonna be almost impossible to prove, but I guess you'd have the opening of. What's that Phil Collins track that they did on the Cadbury's advert when the gorilla played the drums? That's a fairly seminal. In the air. In the air? Yeah, in the air tonight. Maybe some John Bonham at Led Zeppelin. I don't think I'd know that from a hundred miles away. I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't. But whether or not you can have a rhythm, can you copyright a rhythm in the way that you can copyright a tune is what you're asking, really, isn't it? Yes. As far as I see it, there's only so many drum beats you can do. Well, that's what I'm thinking now. Hey, do you know what the most famous one of all is, Scotty? Be queen. Be will rock you. No, mate. I'm gonna see. I'm gonna see your queen. I'm gonna raise you eastenders. Okay. Yeah. If that popped up on a track, would anybody be. Would anyone be in line for royalties? Would the composer of the EastEnders theme chin, be in line for. You're probably right about. We will rock you. I will find out. Someone will know. I suspect quite a lot of people will know, but you and me don't, which is why we're so interested in what the answer is gonna be. You haven't got anything planned, have you? You haven't come up with a brilliant little rhythm track that you're worried someone else is going to rip off or you're going to rip off someone else's. You don't want to get into any trouble for it. No, my dad was a drummer. I have no interest in drumming. But it's just. It's a question I've always wondered. It's a great question. Okay, top man. Hopefully someone can come up with an answer. Exactly that. And if they do, you know what I'm going to do? You see, I get a bit of cliffhanger going. Dave's in Aberdeen. From Glasgow to Aberdeen. Dave, question or answer. It's a question, James. Stamina. What is stamina? And how does stamina make me run, or made me, 20 odd years ago run about a rugby pitch like a headless chicken? Yes. And I can't do it now. I've still got the miles in my legs. It'll be your heart, would it? Is it not. Is it just the. How hard your heart is work? How good, how healthy your heart is? Well, what's the bag of stuff in my body that allows me, or did allow me? So you're saying, why do I get more knackered more quickly now than I did 30 years ago? Really? Is what you're saying. What's changed? Well, it's not so much they get knackered, it's the ability to run around at pace where I can. Without getting knackered? Yeah. Without getting knackered, I can saunter around quite happily for a few miles. So what is stamina? What is stamina? What's the biological explanation of stamina is what we want. Yeah, the biological, physiological, biological. Yeah. I like that question a lot. What is stamina? Good. Yeah, I know I haven't got any anymore, but I didn't have much to start with, to be honest with you, Dave. No, that I've heard. Neither have I. There it is. We'll find out, I think so. Just explain it to us from a scientific, biological point of view. Thank you. Susie's in Stockport. Suzie. Question or answer? I don't. It's a question. Carry on. I'm quite nervous because I've never write before. Oh, blimey. Why not? We tempted you. We finally tempted you. Go on. Okay. Right. This morning, I was trying to order something from a website. Yeah? And I was putting in the card details and it wasn't accepting them, and it kept coming across, you know, always do this with that. Anyway, I'm putting the card details in again. Yeah. And it asked me for a card nickname. Right. And I thought, what does he mean, a card nickname? I've never had that before. No. Anyway, I gave up with the site in the end. I thought not. We've all been there. We've all been there. And I thought, is it Mastercard or Visa? What's it mean? And then it got me thinking, where did it come from, this nickname? What does it mean? Where did it derive from? A nickname. Nickname? Yeah. That was quite a trick. I tell you what, you've made up for lost time, haven't you? With that being your first call. You went round the houses there, Susie, twice you could have come on. Right. And you could have said, where does the word nickname come from, James? I could have told you that. I'm glad you didn't. I'm glad you didn't because you're a natural storyteller. We're moving into Alan Bennett territory at times there. But what were you trying to buy? Sorry? What were you trying to buy? What was I trying to buy? Yeah. I was trying to buy some keto and bars, I think it's funny. So why do we call them nicknames? Sorry, say that again. I'm just repeating the question back to you now. What was the origin and why do we call nicknames? Nicknames? Why are they called nicknames? I don't know. Do you know? No, I don't know. I thought I might know. If I say. If I sort of repeat the question often enough, sometimes things pop in somehow. I've got no idea. I shall find out for you, Susie. Thank you very much. Jane. Where are you going to get your keto bars from instead, though? That's what people really want to know. Well, I've actually bought into this site before and I don't know why it was doing that, so it has been a DOD, not dodgy site, but, you know, I've had problems with it before, so. But I have always managed to. I think maybe because it was a new, new card I was putting in. I don't really know. It will be that. Anyway, take care and I shall try and find out. And why do we call nicknames nicknames? I like that. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Michael's in Taunton. Michael. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. When is the bridge a tunnel? It's not. When does it become a tunnel? Never. When does the bridge become a tunnel? Never. Is there any category error? This, as the great philosopher Fredier would have described it, because a tunnel is a tunnel and bridge. What you've got to remember is that they're both verbs as well as nouns. All right. Okay. So that's your answer, really? Oh, you can't. Shot down in flames if you. If you have a hill, even a tiny little hill. Right. It's a high hill, but it's a very narrow hill. Can you picture a hill like the. What's that? So imagine it's made of rock rather than soil, because all the rock. So it's. It's only like 3ft wide, but it's 20ft high. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You punch a hole through. You punch a hole through the middle of that, it's a tunnel, not a bridge. So it's got to have stuff on it. It's got. Well, it's got to have been tunneled to be a tunnel and bridged to be a bridge. I don't know why, Michael, I am speaking with such confidence on this subject, but I'm in now and I'm not. And I'm stick. I'm sticking on this. You can't. I understand your point. There might be a case to say you have a tunnel and a bridge, as in, the bridge is what goes over the tunnel. But I personally reject that out of hand, because nothing has been bridged. Something has been tunneled. So if you use a tunneling device to create it, it's a tunnel, whereas if you span it, it's a bridge. It's ideal. I think that's right. My daughter asked, because she's off school strike action and all that malarkey, and she asked me the question and I'm stupid and she's. You're not stupid at all. I know. Who might be able to answer that, the LBC public or yourself? Well, I'm taking it. I'm not only taking it, I'm actually quite pleased with that. I'm a big fan of bridges and tunnels and cranes. They are three of the things that bring out the anorak in me more than almost anything else. So, although I have no qualifications whatsoever, I am accepting Keith's round of applause on this occasion. Thank you, Michael. Best wishes to your daughter. If it's wrong, make sure you take all the blame yourself. 1216 is the time. Time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1219. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where Mystery hour is upon us. Questions in need of answers. Can you copyright a drum track in the way that you can tunes? My thanks to Altringham dry cleaners, one of my favourite Twitter correspondents, for telling me that they didn't use drums on the studio recording of we will rock you by queen. And that makes sense, actually, when you listen to it, it just stomps and claps. It has a feel of happening in a stadium, doesn't it? I think the same thing happens in the film as well. 19 after twelve is the time I've done the bridge in the tunnel. What's the origin of the word nickname? Where do nicknames come from? Don't say, oh, you mates make them up. I mean, where does the word nickname come from? What is stamina? Biological explanation of stamina. Stamina and whatever questions you have can be added to the list. Doug's in Oxford. Doug, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Doug. It's the drumbeat question. Oh, good. The answer. Hang on, Keith. Keith, where's the eastenders theme tune, mate? You're supposed to build up some tension at this point. Oh, give up on it. I'll do it myself. You've got the answer to the drums question, Doug. I do, yeah. The answer is no. Carry on. Sorry, there's me rushing in too early. Like a bad drummer. Yeah. The answer's no. You can't copyright a drumbeat in the same way that you can do sort of a melody or a song progression or lyrics or what have you. It's just not considered to be something you can copy. Although for many reasons, you can sample drum beats and like, for example, James Brown, funky drummer, Clyde Stubblefield. That's been sampled millions of times. I think it's considered the most sampled drum beat out. There's no royalty involved in that, then. Well, if you're sampling somebody's record, potentially you are, but you could just copy. You could do your own version of it without any problem. You could program the beat of beats, because drumming is effectively, mostly it's a combination of single strokes and double strokes. So it's the different combination. So there are lots of different versions. And it's a very, very human thing. So four limbs, two arms, two legs. When you're playing a song, even if you're playing the same beat that somebody else played on a record, it's very, very difficult to play in exactly the same way. So it's not as stiff. It's not as. Maybe you rush the beat, maybe you sit back on the beat, maybe you put more swing on it so it can sound slightly different. And some of the best drum beats in the world are effectively copied or amalgamated from different songs that other people have heard. Of course. Of course. Qualifications. I played drums since 1985. I used to work and sell drums in retail. And there are hard. There's nowhere left. There's nowhere. What was the last bit? Sorry, I interrupted you. No, I was saying, I still gig regularly in a band. Oh, good. Impossible now to find drum retailers almost. There's some around. There's one in Battersea. There's none left on Denmark street. Can you believe that? I can. And I've been down there recently. Yeah, used to be. It used to be the place, but I was. I was employee number one at a place called Wembley Drum center, which is still there. That's right. That is still there, because I need to get. I need to get some hi hats. Do you. I'm not very good, but I've got the drums. I ain't got the cymbals at the moment, really? Oh, come on. Which is tricky. It's tricky, but I'm supposed to be writing a book. Give me a shout, I'll sort you out. No, I don't. I don't need to scrounge. I don't need to. This outrageous behavior. I like that. I imagine you'll be flooded with hi hats being sent to you as we speak. Very much doubt it, but I just thought I'd mention it, so I sounded briefly like I might know what I'm actually talking about. There you go. Bless you. Round of applause for Doug the drummer. Thank you very much. 1222 is the time Stuart is in Birmingham. Stuart, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. James, when you are sending your mum a Mother's Day card and you write, dear mom, how would you spell mom? I spell it with a u, because I didn't. My parents are not from the midlands originally. Well, that's my question. My mum passed away recently. I'm sorry. Talking to the funeral director about the service and all the rest of it. And I grew up in Lumbridge, which isn't a million miles away from you in Kidderminster. No. And we've always spelt it m o m, of course. And the funeral director said, how would you like your. How do you refer to your mum? How do you spell your mum's name? And it hit me at that point and I thought, Craig. Yeah. We've always spelt it m o m. And he said, do you want it m u m or m o m, sister? Both said m o m, of course. And I thought, is it the part of Birmingham that I originate from where we spell it? M o m. Is it the whole of the Midlands? It's the whole of the Midlands, really? It's certainly in my experience. Do we want to know, why is that? Why is it mom? Yeah, why is it mom? Is it just the act in the Midlands or is it anywhere else in the country? We only really had one question, but I think this is quite. This one has quite a poignant root to it, this question. So I'm going to. I'm going to overlook that rule on this occasion. But is it the accent? Do you think it might be mum? I was wondering whether or not it lent itself to maybe an american influence, because in America it's mom, isn't it? So whether or not there's some kind of american influence in that, I don't know. It kind of just hit me recently. It's always been mom. But yeah. Why? It popped up earlier this week. I think I took a call from Brighton. It was yesterday. I don't know if you were listening. It might be. Were you listening? I might have been. I might have been. It might be where you got the idea from subconsciously. Because she said mom and I knew immediately that she wasn't from Brighton, she was from our neck of the woods. Which maybe answers the second question, actually, because I'm not aware of it being common pronunciation anywhere else in the country. And I probably would be mom. All right, mom. You're right, mom. Yeah. All right, mom. I'll find out. Why do we call it mom in the midlands? 0345. Thank you, Stuart. And I am sorry for your loss. 25 after twelve is the time. Why do we call it mom in the midlands? James is in pool. James, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Why does lemonade seem fizzier than any other carbonated drink? Coca Cola. This is what your researcher said. They still put you through? Yes, they did. Can't get the staff, James. I can't get the staff. Unbelievable. Well, my angle on this was that you've got the sprite challenge, which is on social media at the moment, where you've got to try and drink a full bottle of sprite because it's lemon, lemonade, limeade kind of thing. And then I was pouring some lemonade yesterday and I noticed that the froth, the bubbles, was a lot stronger than what I was just pouring from the Coca cola. Yeah. And when you drink a full glass of lemonade, there's always a great big repeat after it and not so much after cooking. So it's not just the froth, because the froth could be to do with the liquid rather than the gas. It's not just what if it was beer? We'd call it the head on the drink. That's not just that that you're talking about. You're convinced it is more bubbly when you drink it as well. That's right. More gas. I mean, giving it your full chest on this one, aren't you? You're in no doubt whatsoever about the lemonade is more gaseous than any other carbonated. Yeah, probably the exception is probably champagne. What about root beer? I've never had up. Layla. Oh, I love root beer. I could drink root beer. I'll tell you what else is nice. Morrison's the best. Ginger beer. Yeah. No, okay. No, it's not my. No, it's not my fever tree. It's fever tree. But it's on special in Morrison's at the moment. That's really fizzy. Yeah. Okay, so why are certain drinks, moreover lemonade? I've just proved your point. I've just proved your point. Well, I thought I was mocking you. You bloody got me. How did you do that? It is the fever tree. Ginger beer is fizzier than Coca Cola, I would say, or any other cola are available. Yep. All right. Why? I mean. I mean, could it not just be the obvious answer, which is if you've got a sodastream. Have you got a sodastream? Probably about when I was maybe eight. We've got one at the moment. Mum and dad used to have one. But you can. You can hold it down, can't you, for longer? So there's just more gas in it? Put more gas in it, maybe. Or does. Is there something about the different liquids? No, I wouldn't expect you to mate, especially not after I humiliated myself while trying to undermine the brilliance of your question. All right, you're on. Lemonade. Why are some fizzy drinks, notably lemonade and possibly fever tree ginger beer, why are they fizzier than other drinks? 28 minutes after twelve is the time Milan is in Paris. In France. Milan. Question or answer? Answer for the stamina question. Oh, good. Go on. As you get older, your heart and lungs get worse at delivering blood around your and oxygen around your body. When you do exercise, lactic acid builds up in your cells. Lactic acid causes pain and also causes your muscles to stiffen up and seize up. And oxygen is what your body uses to remove lactic acid. So basically it's wear and tear, really? Yeah. Yeah. It's your heart and lungs getting worse at the job. It's declining. And the more exercise you do, presumably the slower that process of decline will be because you're using your heart and lungs more. I like that. I mean, that is all it is. It is literally the amount of oxygen that's getting around your body and the amount of lactic acid. Acid that builds up afterwards. Right? Yep. Qualifications? Degree in chemistry with a focus on biology. Science tutor. I'll do. Round of applause for millon, please. Well paid Milan nama. You need, if you've got a question of your own, or if you would like to answer a question that has already come in, is zero 345-606-0973 so I got that. There we go. Yeah, that was good as well. Doug, the drummer on the drums. One. Why do we say mom in the midlands? Why are some fizzy drinks fizzier than other fizzy drinks? And what's the origin of the word nickname? Why do we call nicknames nicknames? Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1233. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. I know they say ma'am in the northeast. It's not. That's not an answer to the question of why they say mom in the midlands, although it could be the accent is the reason for both. That's one of the questions on the board. Then there's the lemonade question. I'm not going to tell you what the questions are now. I'm just going to give you the broad outline. I've got the nicknames question, the lemonade question and the mom question. Okay. Hannah is in Woking. Hannah, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why do we have different spice tolerances? Well, we've got difference everything in that field, really, haven't we? I mean, you like some things and you don't like some things. Yeah, that's true. But, I mean, it physically causes some people pain, so. And I thought it might be something to do with upbringing and how much spice you're kind of exposed to. But then I have a friend whose sister hates it and she loves it. They had exactly the same upbringing. I think this is a definitive answer. My qualifications are that it's come up before, but it's going to sound a little. Now, that's good, though. We like that. It may sound a bit inadequate or a bit simple. I can't remember what the receptors are called, but you've got receptors in your mouth, and the more receptors you have, the more sensitive you are to spicy food. So if you really, really like spicy food, it's not a question of liking it or not liking it, is it? It's a question of how much pain you're in when you eat it. And so if you've not got that many receptors, you will be having a very different physical experience from someone who's got lots and lots of receptors. Yes. Also correlates, then to how well you taste things. Well, I mean. I mean, I wouldn't want you to think I was trying to pass myself off as some sort of expert, Anna, but, yeah, I mean, well, you'll have lots of different receptors responding to lots of. Lots of different things. But taste buds, we would call them, wouldn't we? I don't know. I think you've got a finite number. I don't know. I don't know why I'm trying to answer your second question because you're not really allowed to ask it, so the answer to your question is receptors and quantity of receptors in your mouth. Okay. You don't sound persuaded. Well, I was thinking what kind of receptors that would be. Okay, then. All right. Why do we just. Is it genetics or TRPV receptors. Now you believe me, don't you? Well, you know. Let me try again. Let me say it. Let me say. Let me try it again. I'll say it in Jacob Rhys Mogg's voice and then you'll believe me because people believe anything that comes out of his gob when he says TRPV receptors, Hannah, and stop being so abusive. Somehow I believe you less now it is TRP something. Receptors. I'm taking a round of applause, by the way. I'm just prolonging. I'm just prolonging the moment for I don't know what reasons. A round of applause for me. That is TRPV one even perhaps been texted, but we've done it before. I know it's true. Thank you, Hannah. Alison's in Harriga. Alison. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. And actually I'm in Knaresborough, not Harrogate. Oh, my apologies. That Mother Shipton's cave? Yes. But your researcher didn't know it, so she wanted to say Harrigan. She's very young and she's very untraveled. She's never been to Birmingham. It's not my research. My producer or my assistant producer. Which one was it, Keith? Who spoke to Alison? Do we know? Cause the other one's never even been to Birmingham. Alison. So I've got the least well traveled production team in the history of radio. It's a miracle we're still national. They've never spoken to anyone outside the M 25 before they got this job. It's outrageous. Keith thinks that Chelmsford is exotic. Where were we? Question or answer? It's an answer to the nickname question. Yes. Oh, good. It comes from old English, the old english word eke, which I think was spelled e k e, which means also or other. So it's your other name. And as it's got corrupted over the years, it's turned from an eek name to a nick name. Happens a lot, that. So the n has migrated from the an to the. To the noun. Indeed. A bit like orange, but the other way around. An orange? You. Yeah, I. I love that answer. Because, of course, now that you think about it, you know, Charles the bold, William the Conqueror, they were eek names, weren't they? Well, yeah, they would have. They would have often have those sort of nicknames, not qualifications. Well, I studied Chaucer's Canterbury tales, my a level. Oh, so did I. I hated it. And do you remember the line and eek, the very piggies? No, I can only remember a very parfit. Gentle night is the only line I can remember from shorthand. Well, my friends and I thought that eek, the very piggies was. Was wonderful. And that eek, we were told, was also. And whether it was my English teacher that then told us about nickname and so on, I'm not sure I love it. Round of applause. But I'm a linguist and I've taught languages all my life, so. Well, I love that answer. And it gets you a round of applause. Thank you, Alison. Thank you. Narissa is in Munich. Narissa, question or answer? I have a question, James. Carry on. Why is it that the saying, the chickens are coming home to roost has such a bad connotation? Because if you have your chickens, you would want them home. You'd want them to come home to roost. Yeah. And if you, I don't know, have a great investment and then you get loads of money, you never say, oh, yeah, the chickens are coming home to roost. Yeah. But it's a figure of speech, as you know. So. Yeah, yeah. Of course it's a figure of speech. But why is it so bad? Because it is. Something you've done in the past is coming back to hurt you. Right. That's what it means. So, the Brexit chickens are now coming home to roost in this country, as I'm sure you know. If you read dirsh Spiegel in there. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I am following. Blistering. So, the Brexit. So you've done something in the past, and now the consequences of it are arriving. The chickens are coming home to roost. And those are negative consequences. But why would it be that figure of speech? Because if you've got some chickens, the last thing you want is for them all to disappear. Exactly. And not come home to roost. Exactly. I'm trying to work out whether this is a brilliant question or not. I think it's definitely a good question, but what other. Can we think of other figures of speech? Because I don't know if that we're taking it too literally. Well, I couldn't think of another one that makes so. So little sense. Go on. No, you can't think of another one that makes so little sense. I'm desperately trying to. Now, I'm looking quite importuningly at my colleagues, but they're not. They're all looking away and getting on with different jobs and tasks. So something else that. So you would say all your chickens are coming home, Theresa. All your. We hold all the cards. That's a good thing to do, right? We've got all our ducks in a row. That's a good thing to do. We've got. No, it's a great question. That's a lovely question. I presume it doesn't translate. It's a uniquely english phrase. Yes. You don't have an equivalent in German? No. No, I don't think. Okay, you're on. I'll try and find out. Why is that. Why is that when chickens coming home to roost would be a good thing, why do we use it as a figure of speech for bad things happening? Thank you, Narissa. I love that question. Danny is in Barnstaple. Danny, question or answer? I have a question. Please carry on. I believe that some people dream in black and white, and some people dream in color. And I want to know why. What do you dream in color and what makes you think some people dream in black and white? My wife said that she had a dream, and at the end of her dream, it was in black and white. And it said the end like a film. Love it. And I was saying to my stepdad about it, and he said to me, yeah, all my dreams were in black and white. And then he found it hard to believe that I dreamt in color. And I thought, why has this never come up before? So I asked a few more people, and the young lad I worked with, Josh, he said he dreams in black and white and in color, and I've never dreamt. I've never dreamed. He's probably got sky, has he? Yeah. My stepdad said that all his memory recalls in black and white as well. If he's thinking back on something, he recalled his memory in black and white. I've never clocked it, to be honest. Hang on. I think I'm in color. I think I'm in color. Yeah. I had to. I had to have a dream and remember that. Then the dream I. There was orange. So I had to confirm to myself after I heard it. That's quite a good idea, actually. Is that if you're having a dream, try and train yourself to have an orange and then you'll know. I didn't train myself. No, I know. But other people listening, Danny, who might not be able to, you know, what are the odds on stumbling across an orange in your dream? You could try and train yourself like Leo DiCaprio in that film. It might have been a traffic cone, it might not have been an orange. No, that's a good point. It's like, I think I must dream about the studio a bit, mustn't I? I must. Sometimes I close my eyes, I can see Keith's face in front of me, staring back out of the oblivion that I face every day. But the red, the red and the blue in the studio, I'm pretty sure when I've dreamt about being at work, it's been in color. I think this is an amazing question. Hang on, let's not get carried away. I can smell the board game, James. But trying to get through with this question in the board game, then it wouldn't be so clever. Then you've never heard this before. I think I might have done. No, you haven't. I think I have. Rings a vague bell. A tinkling. There's a tinkling bell. Keith, can you hear a tinkling bell? Yeah, we can both hear a tinkling bell here, Danny. And it's nearly quarter to one now, so I want to roll over next week. I've been trying so long to question, why do people. Why do some dream in black and white and some color? Yeah, you're on. All right. Give my best to Josh. Yeah. Cheers. Aaron is in Athens. Deak and his. Aaron. Hello, James. Hello. Question or answer? I don't know the greek word for question or answer. I should do, really, but I don't. Sorry, that's right. We're not greek. We're just on holiday. Oh, so you don't speak any Greek at all? None at all, yeah. That's awkward. Carry on. What's the question? Well, we've been heading around the museum here and we've noticed everything is measured in ADBC. Yeah. But we're wondering, how did the ancients measure time? As in years? Yeah. How do you say this? Ten years from. From what starting point? Where was their anchor point? So if you remove the birth of Christ from the equation, what year was it when people like Pythagoras were doing their stuff? Yeah, exactly. What were they writing on their tablets? Yeah. I mean, they had their own calendar, but you want more than that. Yeah, that's it. All right, you're on. It's a terrible line. Otherwise, I'd do some more greek based banter with you, Aaron, even though only one of us has any greek at all. But that was. I don't know what was going on. Probably because he's so far away. That's not how phones work. I'm pretty sure we've done those last two at some point in the last hundred years, but only time will tell. It's 1245 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1249. My thanks to my friend Nico for helping me out with the greek erotici. Apantisi erotisis que apant. What's the c? Is it tiki otisi? I don't know. Stop saying that rude word in my ear, Keith. It's the only greek word. You know, people can hear it as well. You know, it bleeds out my earphone into the microphone. It's me that will get into trouble. Uh, back to Mistria. Catherine's in Kingston. Question or answer? Uh, question, James. So, um, I've got a gold necklace which I wear all the time. Just leave it on the. All the time. Even in the bath? Yeah. Okay, well, this is relevant because this is to do with the question. And the chain is, um, nine carat gold, and it's got a pendant on it about the size of a five pence piece. Yeah. Which is 18 carat gold. Lovely. Um, now I want to know why, when I go into the sauna, like, a hot sauna, obviously they'll feel hot, I guess. As opposed to those world famous cold saunas. Yeah, exactly. When I sit up, it's fine. The necklace, I don't notice it. I don't feel anything. But if I lean forwards, even if it's just for a few seconds, and the pendant comes away from my skin, when I then lean back, it burns. The gold has heated up and it burns my skin, but it only does that if it comes away from me and then goes back in contact with my skin. If I just stay with it, in contact with my skin the whole time, it's fine. I don't know how much of a mystery this is. Go on, then. Why does it. Why does it. Why does that heat up, then? No, it didn't. It's always hot. But it doesn't burn me. No, because it's. Because it. Because. Well, it doesn't burn you when it comes back. It just. It's hot. You notice it's hot. It doesn't burn. It doesn't leave a mark. So it's always hot. I've got the same thing. I spend quite a lot of time in saunas, and I've got, I wear a small, little bracelet that has got little silver nobbles on it. And the silver nobbles will burn me. Okay, we'll use the word burn. The word burn is fine, but it's not heating up when it ceases to be in contact with your skin. It's just when it ceases to be in contact with your skin, your skin cools down a bit, and then when it swings back again, it's gonna, you're gonna notice it a lot more. The skin, the heat on your skin is dissipating, and when it's not on there, it's accumulating. Um, no, because if what I do now, if I lean forward, I hold on, I hold on to it, I know it's gonna burn me. Yeah. And once I've held it in my fingers a little bit, I can then let go of it. And it doesn't burn because it's dissipated. The heat has dissipated out of the metal into your skin in the same way that it's dissipating when it's touching the skin on your chest. But it doesn't burn. No, because it's not as hot because it's going. So it's like conducting into your skin. But then why do you not feel it heating up when you go in there? Because it's touching your skin, it's heating up gently. So that's like the old frog boiling analogy. You don't notice it because it's going up very gently, incrementally. If you, once it gets to that point, if you then lean forward, it shouldn't get any hotter, should it? Should be staying the same temperature. It probably is staying more or less the same temperature, but it's not dissipating anymore into your skin because it's not touching your skin, therefore it's not. I mean, spreading, dissipating, whatever word you prefer. I mean, I'm pretty confident this is right. I mean, what's your theory? I don't know. And I was just thinking about, how can you be so skeptical of my answer? How you be sniffing and sneering at my answer then? I'm not. I'm just thinking that I still. No, come on, think about it. Here's the thing. But it still makes a difference. Yes, but it is a hot thing. And when it's touching something else, the heat gets spread out more. And when it's not touching it, the heat doesn't get spread out more so it gets a bit hotter, and then when it swings back onto your skin, you notice it for a while, but if you leave it there, it stops burning. That's the point, to help you. When it comes back to your skin, it burns. But if you leave it there, it stops burning because the heat starts dissipating again. Okay, I want to try that. Then. I think you should report back now, because other people are going to be interested. All right, but I'm going in on that. I'm taking a round of applause, and I'm 99.9% certain that that was correct. But I shall leave the 0.1% there for the remaining five and a half minutes of this program. Okay, thank you. Take care. Thank you very much. Thank you. Bye bye bye. Professor Hal is here. I don't know why you're here. Is it the lemonade? No, James, it's a commentary on your commentary about chili peppers and the like and why they are hot and cold. And I happen to know that baby Tamara is listening, so hopefully she'll be a chip off the old science block. You've had another baby? No, no, the same one I mentioned last time. Oh, of course. Carry on. Right, okay. You only get to mention it one baby once. Anyway. Hello, baby. Tomorrow. It is about receptors. But tprv one. Receptors, I think you'll find, professor, you may be right. Thermoreceptors to the layperson. Yes, yes, but I'm no lay person. Chillies make you more sensitive to your body's own heat. And things like menthol and mince have the opposite effect. They make you. They desensitize them. But why would they do that? Can we talk about that? Evolution does not act with a purpose, but it's all about plants wanting their offspring to be germinated far away so they don't compete with resources. So what they do is they make chillies and spicy things less palatable to mammals. But curiously, birds don't have thermoreceptors in their beaks, so birds will eat them, animals won't. Birds fly them away. They pass through the bird, and they germinate far, far away from mum and dad. In answer to the original question, it probably is about greater or lesser number of receptors per square millimeter. But the underlying story is quite interesting as well. Round of applause. I mean, I'm going to give you a round of applause, but, I mean, it's not like you need it. You've got more than anyone else in the history of mystery hour. Just for a quality contribution. Was I right about the sauna? I sort of tuned in and out of that one, but I think you were. It was. It was about dissipating heat. So you were broadly right. We can have a round of applause then now. Thank you. Oh, thank you, love for baby. Tomorrow, James is in Nottingham. James, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah, but regarding the sauna. Oh, I. Gold has a very high electrical and thermal conductivity. Yes. When it's in contact with your skin, the outside of the jewelry will be at sauna temperature and the inside will be at skin temperature. This will drive quite a high heat flow through it, through the gold, into the skin. Yeah. But it will remain on the skin side at skin temperature or some equilibrium between sauna and skin temperature. Yeah. If it moves away from the skin, it will then actually heat up the sauna temperature and then when it swings back onto the skin, it's going to be hotter than the skin is. It will be hot. I think. I still think I was right. I still think I was right, wasn't I? No, I was. It is actually hotter. I got a b plus. I got a b plus. Well, a c. Come off it. What are your qualifications? Master of astrophysics. Yeah, but apart from that, I've got a couple of other degrees. How many gold necklaces have you got, champ? So. No, all right. I mean, I've got no common sense, though, James. Oh, you and me both. I kind of meant that, but I didn't say it right. And the bit I got wrong was that the outside of the bit of the necklace that isn't touching the skin will be sauna temperature. But the bit that is touching the skin will be skin temperature. Yeah. No, but when it's away from the skin, then it all goes up to sauna temperature. Reach sauna temperature. Yeah. No, I like it. Round of applause for the astrophysicist. Please. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Beautifully done. And Mark's in barrow. Inferno. Smart question or answer? Yeah. The question I'm giving an answer to about ancient chronologies before Ad and BCE. Brilliant. Romans. The Romans officially counted from the date when they thought Rome was founded, which was 753 BCE. Yes. And they gave them the numbers ab urbe condita from the founding of the city. But they didn't use that system very much. Instead, they cut. Named each year by the two people who were consuls in that year. Oh, really? This meant that people had to work really hard to learn and remember those, because it'd be a long series of two names for each year. Yeah, of course. And it wasn't. So. It was. That was often used. But people had to desperately try to know, what about in Greece? Do we know what happened in Greece? Increase in Greece? Each state had its own system. So if you went. If you went from Athens, if you went from Athens to Crete, you could change. You could be changing years. It could be completely different. Some people counted by the Olympiads the four year period to the Olympic Games. So they'd say the third year of the 53rd Olympiad or whatever. Love it. And there was a thing in Assyria called the Limu list, which was a list of leading magistrates and that was the basis of assyrian chronology. Things in different places. Perfect answer. As we always expect from you, Mark, I'm going to even spare you the business of reminding us what your qualifications are. Can we stop putting Mark on so late in the day on the pro? I know we can only put him on after he's rung in, but that's two weeks running now where he's come on near the end and I could have. We like to listen to him for longer, don't we? Pick a favorite. I'm going to go for Susie, who's probably still trying to buy her keto bars online at the moment. But she made me smile at the very outset and it was her first time as well. So she gets the mystery outboard game. That's it from me for another day. You can listen back on catch up on global player. Where do you know? You can also rewind live radio. You'll also find all of LBC shows to catch up on and the world's biggest podcasts. I thought you were writing, including myself. Then the producer was writing while I was reading. I thought, I can't be that egotistical. That's not what people have come to expect. Including mystery hour she was writing. You can download counter. There's loads of self contained mystery hour podcasts. That's all on global player. Download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com dot. Tom Sawbrick with you at four. Shield of Fogarty with you now.