Aled Jones makes a surprise appearance on Mystery Hour

BC three minutes after twelve is the time you are indeed listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is about to commence. Actually, technically speaking, it's already commenced. It's. It's now underway. So if you know what's going on and you know what to do, do it now. Book your place on the board. If you don't, then just bear with me for a moment, because this is unlike any other hour of radio you've ever encountered. This, for example, is an hour of radio that comes with cast iron guarantees. Oh, yes. You will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. If you stay tuned to LBC, you will have more knowledge by 01:00 today than you have now. Don't get that listening to records, I can't guarantee that the knowledge will be of any use to you whatsoever, or you'll even be grateful for it, but there will definitely be more of it. In terms of quantity, possibly quality, but definitely quantity. I'm also minded to reactivate the laughter guarantee. You will also. Otherwise I'll provide you with a full refund of your time. You will have at least one laugh out loud moment in the course of the next 50 odd minutes in the course of mystery hour. But what is it, James? Well, I'll tell you. It is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of knowledge, the sort of enlightenment, the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. In other words, it is the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine columns where someone writes in with a question and then several years later, they hopefully get an answer. Here you get instant gratification. Seriously, instant satisfaction. You get the answer before 01:00 before the hour is up. Of course, in order to get an answer, you first of all have to submit a question. You do that in the traditional manner by dialing zero 345-606-0973 hold your horses. Though. There are two rules. The first rule is never be dull, don't be boring. If you're thinking of asking a question, and in all honesty, you don't think anyone else except you will be interested in the answer, then keep your hands in your pockets and stay away from your phone. Similarly, if you. I know you can't check this, but you could try. There is a wonderful archive at LBC dot co dot UK dot. If you're asking a question that we've dealt with before, we will, if we can remember dealing with it, politely invite you to move along. You're not allowed. If you're thinking of answering a question to look anything up. This is why mystery app became a thing. Actually, oddly relevant to the conversation we were having in the last hour about technological developments and tinternet. And what is the simple fact that we don't know stuff anymore? You know, you're doing your homework with your kids, you don't know stuff. It's so satisfying when you pull stuff out of your memory banks rather than just googling it or looking it up. So this is a celebration of knowledge. And because knowledge is universal, it doesn't matter where your knowledge came from. When you provide your answer, I'll ask you to share your qualifications. But all I mean by that is, how do you know the thing that you know? You don't have to tell me. I've got a PhD in astrophysics. Or bag of gymnastics award three. I could never do the cartwheel. You just need to tell me where you picked it up. So it could be anything from. Oh, well, I do have a PhD in astrophysics, James. Or it could be. I saw it on telly last night. It's just where you got the knowledge. You're not allowed to look stuff up. You're not allowed to be boring. Yeah, I know, a little bit hypocritical and you are not allowed to, well, kind of clog up the switchboard with questions that are never going to get on air. Those are the only rules. Ok, are we good? Are we ready? You good? I'm good. You good? We're good. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Let's start in Peckham. Bill's there. Bill, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Bill. Why is it traditionally we always wear black at funerals? And we obviously have black curse, as opposed to. Yeah, I mean, the color of morning. But. But why does it have to be black? Dark. We associate it with darkness. The end of the day, I bet. I don't know for sure. How long have you been wondering about that? The last ten minutes. It's a mystery, our special. It's not something that's been keeping you awake at night for the last ten years. Not really. It's a nice question, though. Why do we wear it? I mean, it's kind of obvious, but we don't know the definitive answer, so it's definitely worth leaving on the board. I'll do that. Why do we wear black at funerals? Why the hearses are black is almost certainly the same answer. It's the association of the color black with. And also on those massive cars you very rarely see them? Any other color? David is in Lewisham. David, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, mate. What's. What's happening when I rub my two bob on a pay machine? You haven't checked the archive, have you? Really? You haven't checked? We've done it. Well, why did I get through, James? I don't know. This is. This is the point I'm subtly I. The point I'm subtly making, David, is I don't know why you got through, but I didn't want to spell it out like that for fear of embarrassing an esteemed colleague. So can I have that as a second question? What you mean is why, when I've rubbed a coin on a steel surface, right. Does it seem to work when it didn't work before? Yeah. I can't remember the answer, which means I have to leave the question on the board. But I'm 99%. Yeah. Well, yeah, because if I can't remember the answer, how can I prove that we've answered it in the past? Exactly. Back on. Yeah. Well, write the scripts for me now. Martin's on Fenchurch Street. Martin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Where does the saying Diggs come from? That is when my dad was younger and he moved to London from up north east, so I stayed in Diggs. I was wondering where. Where the saying comes from. I like that I'm doing that thing I sometimes do, Martin, where I'm pausing in the hope that an answer will appear fully formed in my mind. But I'm not going to lie to you. At the moment I've got nothing. Digs. Latin dig. Digs. Infra digs. You don't hear it any. People don't mention it anymore. It seems to be something that people used to say. Well, you don't know anybody who lives in Diggs, though. No, because digs were temporary accommodation, weren't they? It was like you'd stay in Diggs if you moved for work, but it wouldn't be home, it'd be Diggs. Exactly. Yeah, but I just wondered why it was called Diggs. No, I know you are. You've said that already. I'm just wobbling and burbling in the hope of an answer appearing in my mind. While you're still on the line, Martin. You don't need to repeat yourself. Diggs. It's not happening for me. Origin of the phrase Diggs as a reference to a temporary abode, temporary place of repose. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. So any of those. Now see if you're new to this, you see how it works. Why black at funerals? You might think, uh. But actually I want to know the proper answer. I bet it only began with victorians. Relatively recent development, the Victorians in this country completely defined our attitude to death. For better or for ill. The rubbing of the coins on the vending machines is all right, I think we've been there before, but obviously, if you don't know the answer to it and I can't remember the answer, it's worth finding out what it is. And Diggs, I love that. Diggs. Why Diggs? For the place where you're staying. I think we're doing, by the way, two for the price of one this week on mystery hour, because it's our big globals make some noise day tomorrow. And last year it coincided with mystery hour, so I charged you for the privilege of asking a question. Question. I'm going to do that again tomorrow. We're going to raise a bunch of money for globals, make some noise. But today you can get your question in for free. So if you're really tight, then don't hesitate to ring in today instead of tomorrow. Tony is in Gillingham. Tony, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes. I was out walking yesterday. I saw a dog. It was a terrier. It was absolutely jet black, but except for one part of its face, which was a perfect phantom of the opera, sort of white. Oh, yes. We've got a cat that's got. That's black and white, but the paws are all white and the tip of the tail. Nearly every animal you see, cat and dog, the colors are in specific places, like often around the eyes of terriers, you know, like bullseye from Oliver. And I wondered if there was a specific reason, genetically, why the colors sort of went in one place, rather than, say, that dog yesterday. Why he didn't have white spots, but it was just exactly in that part of his face. And it always seems to be the paws and the tail or the chest that gets a little bit of white. It would be common ancestor, won't it? Oh, yeah, it obviously be. Perhaps a black and white cat, say they went together. But why? Why is it always seem to be the paws and the tail? Why doesn't the color just go all over like the human? The pigmentation is roughly equal, isn't it? You never see a cat that looks like a frisian cow. That's what you're telling us? Basically, yeah. You do see the old one. But usually we had it. We had a next doors cat was called snow boots when I was a kid because it had little white booties. That's what you're talking about, isn't it? These always seems to be the pause. Why isn't it? I need. I need to get the question and we need to zone in on the question tone. We need to get a little bit more kind of qi and a little bit less tis was all right. Okay, so what do we say? Why, when animal pigmentation or fur pigmentation, why do color variation seem, seem confined to paws and faces? Very, very. Exactly that. Yeah. But specifically with this dog, it really. Well, I can't ask a question specifically about a dog you saw in the park yesterday, can I? No, but what I'm saying is it was so exact, it almost looked like it been painted on. I thought, well, why isn't it on his back or on his legs or on his tail? Just that bit of white just there. And I say, always seems to be paws. Hence a lot of cats have got names about boots and paws and things like socks in the White House. No, boots. Socks. Do you want to know something? You've got a fan. You've got a fan. Bar thief just tweeted to say, oh, my God. This question right now is the one I've wanted to ask for ages. Do you know, James, I was dying to look it up on the Internet and I waited until today. I really want to know. I've thought about it for ages because our cats black and white, but she's so differently colored in terms of where the black and white is to the neighbor's cat. It's just strange. Pressure's on now. Pressure's on now. Tony. Tony. Phone does instead of looking it up on Internet. So we're gonna have to. Have to get him an answer. Gonna have to play it, Tony. I'll see what I can do. The pause. Is there a genetic explanation for why the different colors on a cat or a dog seem to be confined so often to the same parts of the body, namely the paws and the face? If you know the answer to that. Oh. 304 5606-0973 Ross is in Walthamstow. Ross, question or answer? Answer, please. James. Radio off. Ross, I'm sorry, mate. 1 second. What have you got? It's the answer to the coin up the side of the machine. Yep. It's. There's nothing about it. It's all in your mind. You're right. It's just nonsense. It's law of averages, isn't it? So you give it I remembered as soon as I put the phone down on the fellow that asked the question. He thinks it works. But it doesn't. No. Seven times out of ten it won't. The three times you scratch it, it might. But that's just, as you say, laws of average, mate, it's going to happen sooner or later. Qualifications. I heard it on the radio. I bet you heard it here. Did you? I did. I was going to say you were in trainers because when you kick yourself, you don't want it to hurt that much. Yeah, all right, mate. It's not my fault that you got put through. I'm in charge of banter. I'm in charge of banter and genius. I'm not in charge of top to call selection. That's Caroline's job and she is wearing train. Thank you very much, Caroline, for getting me through. It's not the flipping oscars, mate. Give him a round of applause. Thank you very much. I'd like to thank my mother, I'd like to thank my director, I'd like to thank my publicist, I'd like to thank my agent and I'd like to thank my travel correspondent. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The time now is 1215. LBC. Man on LBC. 90 minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Some nice questions and some slightly sillier ones. Why does black automatically get associated with funerals? I think Sikhs have white funerals. I think Sikhs wear white at funerals. I could have got that wrong. Forgive me if I have. The rubbing coin question is simply not true. Although it seems like it's true because your coin goes in a machine, it doesn't work. You give it a rub. It does work. But if you didn't give it a rub and you put it back in, it would have worked. It's law of averages, so it's confusing that, isn't it? I love stuff like that. It's like that old story about the scottish doctor who could predict whether you were going to have a boy or a girl and he never got busted for being a charlatan because he wrote down the opposite of what it. That's brilliant. Every time I'm about to tell you about this, I forget how it actually worked and I've just remembered. And if I tell you really quickly, I might remember to the end of the story, otherwise it might disappear before I get there. So there's this doctor in Scotland, right, and he's got a reputation for being able to predict what gender of baby you're going to have just by putting his hand on your tummy while you're pregnant. So he does it, and then he writes down in his book a record of what he's done. And you can't fake it because the book, obviously, the people that come after you, you don't give birth for months until after you've done it. But he always writes down the opposite of what he actually told you. So you come to see me, I put my hand on your tummy. I tell you, you're going to have a boy. You go away. I write down, Doris and John Smith will have a girl. And you go away, you have a girl and you think, oh, that's outrageous. He told us I was going to have a boy. So you go back to the doctor, right, I want a refund. Right, come on. And he gets his records out and he says, there you go. I said, you're going to have a girl. You must have. You must have misremembered. And they go, oh, that's very strange. I'm sure he said, boy, because if you did have a boy, you'd never go back and see that he'd actually written down girl. Genius. Absolute genius. You want to set yourself up doing that sort of fraud. I'll take 15%. June is in Orpington. Back to mystery, our June. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Hi. Yeah, wearing black. You said you thought it probably went back to victorian times. Yes, close. It goes back to the roman empire. Oh, get you. Are you sure? Really? Where they used to wear something called a tugger puller or a toga puller, which was a dark colored toga, to show they were in mourning. Yeah. As a little aside, purple is half mourning. So back in victorian days, when you used to be expected to wear mourning for a set amount of time, once you went into half mourning, you could wear purple. But you're also right about white, because Africa and asian cultures mainly wear white for funerals. And I think the reason we do black and they do white is because our roads were muddy and theirs were sandy, so our whites would have got dirty. So I think it's kind of. I love the thought you've given this. That's a really lovely theory. Yeah. It was my grandma who said, yes, well, we wear black because it doesn't get dirty as quickly. And the tradition of why now we just wear it for the funeral. But back in the day, the widow would wear black for some weeks after the event even. I mean, in the case of Queen Victoria, didn't she wear black forever after Albert died? Yeah. In Victoria days, the higher up in social standing you were, the longer you were expected to wear black. For nobility. It was four years. The original questioner would come back and say, that's not what I asked. I asked, why black? Not when black. You've given us when black. He wanted why black? But the answer that is bound to be associated with the end of the day and the night time coming in. No, according to my grandmother, it was associated purely with the fact that white, lighter colors were harder to keep clean. And in times of mourning, you weren't supposed to do much. And as I said, with the dirty roads, the Romans had slaves to do all that malarkey. They wouldn't have had to do their own toga washing, somebody would have had to have done it and they would have been busy doing other things. I'm going to give you around, what's the phrase? Qualifications. Grandmother's knee. No, qualification. When my husband's niece retired and started working part time as an undertaker's, I was quite curious and looked it all up. I love it. Did you hear Rita in Bexley last Friday? No. Last Friday I was a little bit too busy to listen, unfortunately. What? No, no. Last week, my mum's care alarm went off in the middle of the night, so I was tied up most of the day with sorting out. I can't do any comedy banter now, can I, June? I can't tell you that I need a letter off your mum, can I, to explain why you weren't here? Because you've just explained why you weren't here. You ruined my chance. Because she'd rolled off it. Covering a lot of ground here. Rita in Bexley told us on Friday the show you missed because you were looking after your mum. But there are podcasts available. Actually, I would remind you that there's a public convenience near her that's been turned into an undertaker's. It's a growing business they do, but public convenience, I thought, was a particularly interesting change of premises use. June, this is for you. And I, of course, missed the opportunity on Friday because I only saw the tweet a couple of minutes after the Rita had gone by to point out, as my friend Scott did the rest in pee joke that was just begging to be told. Liz is in Stoke on Trent. Liz, question or answer? Hello, James. It's taken me years now. Frankly, it's been worth the wait from my end. Liz. Oh, God. My question. Excuse me, James, what is the recording system that is used in court, where you see a lady sitting on her own with a tiny machine. Excuse me, because it isn't shorthand. It's stenography, isn't it? Stenography. But she keeps up word for word exactly in time. So what is actually being recorded? I mean, what is the system? It allows you to keep verbatim. Keep up verbatim. I don't. I don't have a clue. I don't have the first. I imagine it's like a shorthand typewriter, but that's certainly not going to be an acceptable answer for someone as exacting and demanding as you, Liz, is it? Well, the key. There's only a few keys on there. It's not Pitman shorthand, because I do Pitman shorthand. And the. I meant shorthand is a generic term, because they're clearly not typing out the whole words and yet they're typing down enough to get a verbatim account of what has been said in court. That's right. And there's only a few keys. So I just wondered. I've always wondered, every time it's on a film or, you know, what exactly are the symbols? We need an actual stenographer to ring in. That's all we're going to accept, isn't it? I'll leave it with you, then. All right. I'll see what I can do. Liz, you know how it works. If we build it, they will come. So, stenographers of the world, please wait until there's a phone line free as soon as I bid farewell to lit. Oh, it's gone already. Richard's in Ayrshire. Richard. Oh, crikey. Moving up and down the country. Gay abandon. I love it. Question or answer, Richard? Question. Answer, James. Bring it on, sir. Diggs. It was lodgings and boarding houses for the guys that were building the canals in the midlands. You get two words, you get navigational diggers. So you end up with navies and digs. Oh, you're good. Oh, I love that. I'll never forget that as well. Often I forget the answers. But the fact that you've tied navi to digs and navigational diggers, usually irish, of course, is it works like a sort of aid memoir now, so I'll associate the two and I'll never forget it. So the navigational diggers, the navvies was the name given to the people and the digs was the name given to where they stayed. Are we 100% sure about this? Well, it was the book that I read it. And yes. So what was the qualifications? You read it in a book. Can you remember which book? Oh, years ago, mate. That'll do. No, I love it. It makes sense as well. A lot of people actually. Hang on. Before we play the round of applause, a lot of people suggested soldiers digging out trenches, but that's quite a short period of history where soldiers would dig out trenches. Well, as far as I'm aware, it was the canals in the midlands. It was not just in the midlands, but anyway, you've got majority number. You've got a round of applause. Great work. Get in. Come on. Unfortunately, it's downhill all the way now for the rest of the week. Thank you, Richard. Marie is in Castleford. Marie, question or answer? Hello. Good afternoon. It's a question, please. I just wondered. It's something I've often wondered. We love Disney and Walt Disney have never, ever built a Disney world in England. And why? Because in the United Kingdom, we all go all over the world. So they have one in China, they have one in Japan, and they have them in America and obviously Europe, but we are probably the ones that would be the ones that would have to travel everywhere to one. Why have Disney never built a theme park in the United Kingdom? Yeah, well, uk. Yeah. I don't know if that's a proper mystery in the sense that there'd be an actual answer to it. The only answer you're going to get is because they didn't want to. They looked. I think when they built Euro Disney, they looked. They considered a few sites in Europe and we were among them. But we've already got Alton Towers, Blackpool, Prezza Beach, Thorpe Park, West Midland, Safari Park, Gulliver's kingdom. What? Nobody does it like Disney. You know, Disney's just Disney. It's like, you know, that's why we travel all this way to go. Well, I know that, Maria, and you know that, but if you were thinking of building a Disneyland, you'd build it where you thought you'd get the most customers and also where the government gave you the best deal. And the french government obviously rolled out the red carpet for Euro Disney, didn't they? That might be a good price. That's all it is, I think. I don't think there's any other reason why we thank you. You're very welcome. Are you happy with that? Yeah, I'm really happy with that. For quite a long time now. We know thousands of pounds, so, yeah, that'll be it. Do you know, just on that point of Diggs, I just wanted to say that still. We live in the north and still on the east coast. So. Scarborough, Whitby, fire. All of the accommodations would still be referred to as digs. Miners used to always say that they were staying at digs, never at bed and breakfast, which they were. They always referred to them as digs. So do you think that's just coincidence? No, I think. I think it's. I think you're dead on the money. I think that the phrase got moved on from the navigational diggers onto everybody who's whose job took them somewhere else. So, I mean, when my dad was a journalist in that part of the world, oddly enough, he would have said he had digs because it wasn't really home in the traditional sense. Do you know, my uncle John had a cottage on the cliffs at Filey? I haven't heard anybody mention Filey for about 25 years. Really? It's still the same now. You would go back and it's just stood still in time. It's beautiful. I hope it's changed a bit. We used to have to put five pence pieces in the electricity meter to get the lights to come on. We've come on a little bit, but you know what it's like here. We're still a bit behind the toes. Not that far. Bevery. What a lovely call. Much. And of course I get this. Everyone's a winner. 12:30 is the time. Simon Conway has the headlines. Ministers have allowed fracking to go ahead at a on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The questions on mystery are still in need of an answer. Are only. There's only two of them. We are doing well today. The distribution of color on a cat. All right, if you didn't hear the question, it's going to be quite hard for me to react. You know how cats often have the same distribution of color? You'll see the paws or the face displaying the same patterns, usually with the black and white, but it happens elsewhere as well. So if you know the answer to that, call me and tell me why. What is the reason for that? It's got to have something to do with common ancestors, but I want someone who sounds a bit cleverer than me to provide an answer. And similarly, how does stenography work? That question. It's a lovely question about. Was it Liz in Stoke on Trent? Do you know, it's going to sound strange because I grew up with parents from Yorkshire and because I've worked for most of my life in London one of the best things about LBC going national is hearing the different accents from the different parts of the country. It just. I've got such a real anorak hobby with accents and hearing Maria in Castleford and Liz in Stoke on Trent. It just makes my day at work even more enjoyable than it usually is. But I want to know how stenographs work. Stenography, how does it work? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need for that. I've got some important business of which to remind you, namely that we're giving you the chance to win an amazing trip for two to Washington DC. It's all part of Global's make some noise, LBC's very own charity supporting projects across the UK which help young people and their families. You'll stay at the Ritz Carlton Hotel. It's a genuinely luxurious hotel that there's a dollar 500 shopping spree included. That's at the fashion centre at Pentagon City. Thanks to them, United Airlines Big Bus, Washington DC and bike and roll DC will also help turn this into a very special trip. And to support LBC's charity, globals make some noise. Place your bid in this online auction. You can get all the terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK. The auction closes at 12:30 this Friday afternoon. And listen, if you're feeling like a bargain rather than an act of pure charity, then you fancy a trip. Just work out how much it cost you to get two top flights to Washington DC. Four nights at the at the Ritz Carlton Hotel and see whether or not you're going to get a bargain by applying for this one. Check the number of nights. Actually, I haven't got that written down in front of me, but it's worth doing the sums because at the moment it still seems quite a low figure to me. Or it was this morning before we came on our check. Two things before we came on air. Clip from yesterday's show. Has it passed the 2 million mark yet? Yes. And bids on the auction to Washington DC. Does it still look like a bargain? Yes, but I haven't checked since coming on air shortly before 10:00. So get over there now. LBC dot co dot UK while you're on the website, you can also bid for the ultimate LBC experience. It's lovely, this. You can. Apparently you'll join me for the last half hour of this show. No one's asked me about that, but I'd be delighted to see you here. You can try your hand at being a travel reporter. You can join Andrew Castle for brunch. Second prize, two brunches with Andrew. No while enjoy breathtaking views of London from our rooftop terrace, all before enjoying afternoon tea with bubbles at the modern pantry. This is a really nice prize if you like LBC. If you despise us all, then you probably wouldn't want to bid for it. But you also get to wind down with an overnight stay in one of London's finest luxury hotels, the courthouse shoreditch hotel. Bidding ends for that at? 930 on Saturday morning, while Andrew's here with you. So go to LBC dot co dot UK comma now, where you'll also find the full terms and conditions. Back to mystery. Our mark's in Romford. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer. Go on, then. It's about Disney. Disney done a survey in England and they found that the only one site that they'd like to build something was rain and marshes in Essex. Oh, really? And when they was. When they was doing the CTRL, the Channel Tunnel rail link, they was going to build a station now for Disney for. But then Disney pulled out because of how much money it cost to firm up the marshland and they pulled out of it. So they scrapped building the train station there and just let it go straight through to St Pancras. Qualifications? I'm an engineer for. On the railway department. Love it. And that's. That was the reason why. I don't know about the early bit. There might have been other sites in the country where they could have done it, but the one that they settled on turned out not to be viable. Yeah. Love it. Round of applause for Mark. That's like an extra bonus for Marie, because it didn't. It didn't make my answer wrong. They said they decided to do it in France because France was more attractive for them. But there's some detail for. For Marie and Castleford. James is in Plymouth. James, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question. Carry on. In life in general, you can do most things left handed. Yeah. You can't. You can't conduct an orchestra left handed. And I was just wondering why. How do you know that? Because you can't. No, but how do you know? Where did you pick up that nugget of information? I like it because I've got a lot of friends who roam marine musicians and they tell me you can't conduct an orchestra left handed. You sure? It's not the first line to a joke that they haven't given you the punchline to yet? No, honestly. Why can't you conduct an orchestra left handed? No, I don't know. Well, why wouldn't. Well, it's weird in it. Yeah, well, you can do everything with your left hand that you can do with your right. Yeah, all right, matron, behave. You can do everything that you do with your right hand. You can do with your left hand, can't you? You can't play polo left handed, can you not? You can if you get a specially trained horse. Oh, no, you can't, because you'd be bumping into everybody or. Yeah. Can you just excuse me for a second? I'm gonna do a little bit of conducting. Mark, have we got any music? Just the hallelujah chorus or something like that. Just something I can conduct to. Because otherwise it's gonna look silly if I haven't got any music playing. Ah, you must be where the right angle is. It's to do with the orchestra. Wouldn't know what was going on if you were left handed. Because they've got. They've been taught to adapt their time signatures to the movements of the right hand, and the right angles would be in different places with the left hand. Now, they wouldn't. All right, then. Comedy interlude, mate, though. Come on, give me some. Give me some. Thank you. Yeah, give me some credit. We'll find out for you. I asked him, why not? And they say, drives the orchestra dooley. But I don't. I don't get that. That's not an answer, is it? No. Well, it does. It is an answer. I mean, obviously. But I can't work out why it would drive the orchestra doolally. We'll find out for you. I like that. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Why can't you conduct an orchestra left handed? Make a list of other things you can't do left handed. I didn't know about the playing polo thing either. Sam is in Hawdon on Hill. Sam. Question or answer? I've got an answer. Please, James. Carry on, sir. It's about the. The dogs and the cats. Why they're. Why their tails and their ears and their paws often turn a different color to the rest of them. They don't turn a different color. They're that color when they're born. Oh, no, they're not. Yeah, they are. No, because when they're puppies and kittens, the extremities, those bits are the bits that get colder. And you were close when you said it was genetics. It's epigenetics. It's how your genes interact with. I was about to argue with you, and then you used the word epigenetics, which has really put me on the back foot. So when they get colder, the. The amount of blood that's there changes. And from that point on, when they're small, the fur is different color. Are you sure? With your epigenetic, what are your qualifications? I did biochemistry for two years at university. But when snow boots was born, snow boots had. Snow boots. Well, are you saying that snow boots was born all one color, and it was only later in life that she developed her little white booties? I don't. I don't buy that. I don't know your cat, James. It wasn't. My cat was next doors cat when I was a kid. Well. Well, I'd say probably, yes. Do you know Alad Jones is walking past the studio? And if anybody knows why you can't conduct an orchestra left handed, it would be. Do you know why you can't conduct an orchestra left handed? Alad. He does. He does know. Well, you can't just mime at me. I can't? You can't go. Come in, come in, come in, come in, come in, come in. Get Alan in. Alad Jones live. Celebrity guest in the studio to tell us why. Because David Arnold has been on. On Twitter saying that he knows the answer. Can you let Alad in? Can we get him in quick areas? He's coming on that microphone there. Just so. Excuse me, Sam, a minute. I'm just. I'm just doing a bit of banter with my chum, Aled Jones. All right. Hi. Hello. I was going for lunch, actually. Lovely. I know. I won't keep you for long. I just need you to tell me quickly why you can't conduct an orchestra. Left hand. Why can't you? I've seen conductors. Oh, this is not good. This is not an answer to the question. Of course you can. If you can. If you can keep the beat with your left hand, you can conduct an orchestra with the left hand. That's what I thought. We need David Arnold to ring it. He's just tweeted saying that he knows the answer, so there must be an answer. You don't know because you're not a conductor. You're the person being conducted. You're the one being conducted. I've been in a concert where a conductor has conducted me with just his left hand. There you go, then we need to go back to James in Plymouth and tell us that his question is built on false premises. Can I give you a mystery. A round of applause. Anyway, even though you didn't get anything. Right. There you go. Give him a round. Good work, Maddie Jones. Can I go now? Yeah, you could go for your lunch now. Thanks very much. Where's Sam gone. Where's the other fellow gone? I hadn't even got to the bottom of his question. Or his answer on the epigenetics. David's in Brighton. Dave? No. Nixon? Crawley. Nick, question or answer? Question. What are the odds on Alad calling me into the classic FM studio tomorrow as I walk past on my way? So, pretty slim, he says. Pretty slim. Go on. What's your question, Nick, just quickly, why motorcycles are advertised on tv when cars are. How the hell did you get through with that question? Because I was watching this thing on tv. No, no, I don't mean that. I mean, how the hell did. What were you thinking of? Who put him through? Well, I was just wondering about it, but I just thought there's nothing advertised on tv. Because it does. They don't. They just. There aren't enough motorbikes sold in the country in a year to justify an advertising campaign on the telly. Yeah, basically. Big market. We can't be as big as the car market, mate. Otherwise they'd be advertising on the telly. Not as big as jelly beans. There's no reason, except the economics of it. So why don't they advertise on the telly? The answer, actually, is because they don't advertise on the telly. The cost benefit ratio of what they'd have to spend on advertising. They'd have to be nice advertising. It couldn't be like the cheap adverts you get on sky during the day for everything from sort of gold coins through to weird sort of flexi fabrics. It have to be really smart, like a car advert. It cost a flipping fortune to make car adverts. They got the budgets of a Hollywood movie, most of them, and the return on that advert would not be justified by the amount of motorbikes you'd sell. Round of applause for me. Thank you. Back to Sam. Sorry, mate. Where were we? Hello. I got distracted by my celebrity friend, Alad Jones. Yeah. So, back to the extremities. Yeah. It's just when they get cold when they're kittens, it can't really be helped. There's nothing to do about it. But they. They just get cold and the genes forever change in that particular region. All right, a round of applause. Because you'd studied it and you used the word epigenetics. But I still think snow boots was born with little white paws. Here we are. Lewis is in barns. Is it Lewis or Lois? Lois. Lois. Question or answer, Lois. It's an answer, kind of, to the. Why can't a conductor conduct with his left hand? Oh, yes. So there are actually left hand conductors out there. Shock horror. Right. It does drive the orchestra a bit potty. Because you were right, though, with the right angle. Was I? So the way that orchestral musicians train is, say you've got four beats in a bar. Yes. If someone conducts with their right hand, it's down for number one, it's across the left for number two, back to the right for number three, and then diagonally up for beat number four. If you have a left hand conductor, it's being or is thrown completely the opposite way to what you're used to so it can be done. And because Alad's a singer, he wouldn't necessarily have been following it. As you know, the orchestra is more focused on the conductor. When you're a singer, you tend to stand in different places as well and you get a bit more eye contact with the conductor. Exactly what I was kind of alluding to. Because he'd be the star, it'd be the poor schlepp's behind him, having to keep up with the left handed. He's too busy being a superstar, giving it all the walking in the air malarkey, isn't he, to notice that the violinist behind him is in all sorts of trouble? Yep. So it's just a way, you know, when you. When you've trained for God knows how many years to do it one way, you're used to this system and then you get someone who does it in completely the opposite way. Yeah. It's kind of heads down, really. And very simply put, it'd be like driving on the other side of the road. When you go on holiday, you can do it, but it's hard and you have to concentrate more. And it's a bit discombobulating, but times ten for orchestral conducting. Yes. Qualifications, Lois? Qualifications, please? I play in London orchestras. What's your instrument? I'm a classical musician. I'm a bassoonist. I beg your pardon? Exactly. It's the long thing that looks like a didgeridoo. I know. Wow. When did you take out the bassoon? When I was quite late, actually. When I was 15. Good grief. My youngest has just been given a trombone by Hounslow District council. But it hasn't got a slider. You haven't got a spare trombone. Trombone slider lying around, have you? My husband will do. He's a tromboneist. I think we need a Ray Liotta moment here, please, Mark. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That's just for you, Lois, but it comes with a round of applause as well. Great work and you succeeded where Alex Jones failed, so kudos to Lois. It's 1247 is the time. Tom Watts has the LBC travel news. Thanks, James. Good afternoon in West Sussex, the northbound BC. I'm sure that there will be more in the news at 01:00 and indeed after that on Sheila's show about the Ukip MEP, Stephen Wolf, the leadership contender, reports that he. Well, we know that he's in a serious condition and has been taken to hospital. It's slightly less clear what this altercation at a meeting of Ukip MEP's involved. More on that as we discover it. Time now is 1252. Back to Mystery House. Alid was right, actually, wasn't he, when he said that he had had left handed conductors, but it would also be sending the orchestra do Lalally. It took Lois in Barnes to nail that one. We still need a stenographer, and I think that Sam nailed the cat's paws ones as well, so it's looking good. Let's go to Dwayne in Brent. Dwayne, question or answer? Hey, James, it's a question. Please, mate. Go on, Dwayne. All right. So I was cooking the other day and I dropped a knife for. I think it was a spoon, actually. And it may the difference between a knife and a spoon. Mate, I'm never coming around yours for dinner. Listen, we use chopsticks, mate. You come around. You're confusing me now. So you dropped a spoon and it made the fire change from blue to orange, and I want to know why. You mean the flame of the gas ring changed from blue to orange? Flame changed from blue to orange. And I tried dropping it and putting my hand in front it, in front of it, thinking maybe it's in our pressure from the sound, but it still changed because of the sound, so I want to know why. Because of the sound? Yeah, I assume it's the sound and not the pressure. I don't know, it just changed color. And then when you took the spoon out of the flame, it went back to normal? No, I didn't even drop the spoon in the flame. I dropped the spoon on the side just a few inches away from the flame and changed color in time with the sound of the spoon falling or hitting the counter. Mate. Yep. Really? So you think that dropping a spoon changed to the color of a flame? Turn the flame on, it'll be a blue flame. Drop a spoon or clap or tap or click your fingers not too far away. But that'll be a draft. Then I thought it was the draft, but I put my hand between the plate. Well, not, you know, close enough to learn myself. I put my hand. Tell you why. It's all going on around yours, isn't it, Dwayne? I put my hand in between the flame and then I put a tray just to check, but it still changed color. All right. I think it was a draft and I'd be surprised if anybody gets in with an answer. But the more I condescend to a caller for having a really stupid question, the more likely it becomes that I end up with egg on my face a few minutes later when it emerges that it was actually a really good question after all. I'm pretty confident that's not going to happen here, but not. Not confident enough to really come down on you. All right, fair enough. I'll take that. I'm going to leave it where it is. But there's no way a sound effects a flat. No, I. I couldn't imagine it myself. And I sat there and I was thinking, well, what is it? And I put a tray between the spoon. Have you ever tried blowing on the flame? Yeah. When you blow the flame, you're. You're interacting with it. It goes the same color. It goes orange again. Right. It does. It goes. That proves the oxygen. It's the drive. All right. I find. Yeah, it's on the board, Dwayne. That's the best I can do. Appreciate it. No, I appreciate you taking the time to ring in 1255, Adam is in Twickenham. Adam, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on. Basically, is the stenographer in a court? Are you a stenographer? I'm not, no. She was staying with me, but she didn't want to up herself and I craved a round of applause. Well, let's not jump the gun here. Go on, tell me how it works. And basically it's like a change typewriter, where obviously your combination of keys make a word, a phrase or a saying or something like that. So obviously when they're typing, then if they can do more. More words per minute, so they can do up to, like, 200 a minute. Yeah. I had a horrible feeling this was going to happen. I know what stenography is and what a stenographer does, but I need the details. So what is on the keys? Well, like I say, if you press, for example, if you press three keys, it would do a word rather than having to type out a word. So a combination of keys will do words. So obviously they're typing away, generating more words quickly. Your partner obviously knows more about it than I do. But do we betweeners know enough to satisfy the original question? Because what is on the key? What sort of thing is on the keys? Because words, there aren't that many in combinations of words. No. And apparently there's not all the letters or words on there. They. Just stay there, Adam, stay there a second, Adams, just stay there. Chris is in Forest Hill. Chris, what do you do for a living? Hello, is that James? Yes, hello. Good morning. I just switched on, got in the car. I am a stenographer. Right. Stay there, Chris. Adam, mate, that's it. Your ship has sailed. Sorry. No, that's the way it goes. No, mate, sorry. Seriously, Chris, over to you. How does it work? I have no idea what the question was. What is it? What is that? What is it? What does the machine that you use do? How does it work? Okay. I trained at a french university. I'm a palantypist. Which is the same as a stenographer. Yes, the word stenographer and palantirpist, we do the same thing. One is the american machine, the other is the french machine we take down. There's the paper feed machine. Yes. And there's also the electronic machine. You won't be surprised that the paper feed came first, of course, invented by Mamzelle Palanque, who was french. She invented it because she. She helped people who stuttered. And she worked as a medical person. She worked out that if you use both hands equally, then both sides of the brain will equally respond. So you're typing it. So what's on the keys, Chris, as it were? It's like playing a piano. Oh, yeah. You are using. It's the only other thing that human beings do. Nothing is on the keys. So what's your next? What's the question? Nothing is written on the keys, but you press them as you would press chords on a piano. In other words, it's not the QwErTy keyboard, where you press one at a time in order to make the thing work, or like an old fashioned typewriter, you had to press one at a time. It's a chord. And in fact, sometimes you will get into the system of hearing someone who's speaking, get into the rhythm of their voice and you're taking down. What we're taking down is phonetics. Phonetics. Phonetics is a system. Got you. I'm going to give you a round of applause because we're short of time, but also I've been. I've been indulging my enthusiasm for non southeastern accents today and I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that you spent some time in Doncaster as a younger woman. I was born in. My. Wasn't mean younger woman. Even younger woman. Even younger woman indeed. My mother was born in Doncaster, so. Well done. I was born in Manchester, grew up in Nottinghamshire. I don't say it, but I went to a grammar school in roughly wrong with that. Going to turn this into a feature on the program. I'm going to speak to people and identify their background. If you're interested anymore in the stenography thing, what people, listeners may be interested. I know you're out of time. I am really late. The paper feed is coming back because of cyber hacking. Right, alert the newsroom. The paper feed is coming back because of cyber hacking. Chris told us first. Give her a round of applause. Great stuff. Picked up the Manchester then as well, after she told me, you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC.