What's Brexit got to do with my bin?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is three minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial is about to unfold. Um, the way it works is this. You might have a little question bubbling away in the back of your brain. It doesn't really matter how silly it seems to you or how personal it is. I don't like generally questions about motoring, but even that has mellowed over the years as I have mellowed over the years. But what I'm trying to say, if you're new to this, is it's not. There's no real rules. Something is puzzling you and you think there must be an answer to that puzzle and that somebody among our audience of geniuses will probably know that answer, then ring in and ask, that's it. I mean, there it is. That's mystery out. There are some housekeeping I must do at this point. There is a prize available for my favourite contribution of the day. That's it. That is the only. It looks like they're sold out of that colouring book at the moment, so rest assured I will bring it to your attention as and when they're on you. Copies of it available, and we probably will, before the end of this hour, make a little mention or pay a little tribute to Shane McGowan, who was so much more than just the fairy tale of New York. Beautiful, beautiful song though, that is. But before all that, mystery Hour, my favourite contribution of the day will win a mystery hour board game. And with Christmas just around the corner, the mystery Hour board game, seven of which I signed at my event in Manchester on Tuesday night, a new record is going to be particularly welcome. You can find out more details about the game at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. You can buy it there, but touch woods, you might win one by providing me with either my favorite question or my favorite answer in the next 50 minutes or so, 52 or three minutes or so. And I think that's it, really. Full terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK and we will, I think, crack on. We'll start in Newcastle. Dean, is there. Dean, question or answer? This is most definitely a question, James. But James, before my question, can I just thank you for your solidarity and support that you saw us firefighters. I have to get that out there. I can actually. I normally get a bit kind of. No, I fully take that. And it's my absolute pleasure to continue to do that. Thank you, Dean. Thank you very much. Okay, so, James, do you drive? Oh, sorry, it's a motoring question, by the way. How's that been allowed to happen? You got. You got to hear it. Go on. Gonna hear it. God. Yeah. Okay. God. Do you drive, James? Well, yeah, I mean, not a lot, because I live in, okay, London and I go everywhere by public transport. But I have got a driving license and a car. You say you share your car with misses j o B? Yeah, I mean, it's her car, really. She shares it with me. Okay. All right. Well, for the likes of myself, I don't share my car with anybody else. Right. Yeah. And this question popped up in my head a few days ago because I've noticed that my car settings, the seat settings, the rear view mirror settings, it's the same. It remains the same. Nobody else touches it other than me. Yeah, I find every single time. And it's only in the morning when I. When I first get in to go into my car to dry before I pull away, I find I've always got to readjust my rear view mirror. Okay. Now, my car wasn't parked on a volcano. You can't blame Bunchfield. There's no vibrations to reset the mirror. So you get into your car having no one else has got into it. Having no. And you get into your car every morning and every morning, and lo and behold, you need to readjust it to. Yes. Okay. I'm not gonna lie to you, Dean. It's not my favorite question of all time, but it is. But it is intriguing. What if it's only you? What if no one else gets in touch? Everyone says it's only you. Maybe you. Maybe you've got some weird condition. And your height oscillates overnight. You shrink a bit. You shrink a bit in the night. And then you sort of expand back to your original dimensions in the course of the day. Either or whether I shoot or grow my marriage to be permanently facing the ground or permanently facing the ceiling by now. So you change. And it's a significant adjustment. It's not like a tiny little, just like almost an affectation. I will say at least about a centimeter adjustment easily. All right. Okay. You're on. Yeah, I'll put it on the board. There's going to be words after the show about how on earth this got put through on the. On the motoring grounds. No, it's not your fault. You know it is. It's a breakdown in communication in the top team of operatives. But I shall know. You're on. Okay. Why does Dean need to readjust his rear view mirror, even though he. Every morning, even though he is the only person that drives the car. Dean. Take care. Thank you for everything you do. Eight minutes after twelve is the time Finbar is in Salisbury. Finbar? Question or answer? It's a question, please. Yes, the question. I have relatives in both Bournemouth and Brighton. Yeah. Which I visit regularly. When I walk along the pier or the beach or in Brighton, I notice seagulls are a lot. I mean, quite significantly more aggressive than not only Bournemouth, but any other beach. I wonder what's occurring. Have you been to Padstow in Cornwall? Yeah, yeah, I once had a cornish pasty torn out of my hands by a seagull. In Padstow? Yeah, in Brighton it's. I saw three attempts at food in one day, you know, successful dive bomb. So your thesis is that the seagulls in Brighton are more aggressive than in other seaside resorts and you want to know why? Yeah, I mean, I'm sure if there was a big dust up between the padstow seagulls and Brighton, I would imagine Brighton would win. But be like the tea bar in Greece. Yes, I'd say there's a significant difference. Well, I mean, just thinking out loud, it would be interesting to know which was the busier promenade. Are people more likely to be wandering around Brighton eating tasty snacks? And therefore the seagulls have become bolder because. Because the rewards are greater or the opposite. You know, what could it be? Is it likely to be a measurable phenomenon even? Is it factual as well? I mean. I mean, it's my subjective experience, but I mean, am I making this up? Well, or imagine. Or hallucinating, actually, I'm going to work on the principle that you're not making it up, because that would be a grave betrayal of all that mystery hour stands for. So there it is. Well, are. And if so, why are seagulls in Brighton more aggressive than anywhere else? That's going to open a can of worms, isn't it, really? Rob's again in Newcastle. Two newcastles in three calls. Rob. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. How did the non darts player in Bullseye prove that their skills were inadequate enough to qualify as a non darts player? Yeah, well, sometimes they were very good at darts. You've misunderstood. Would you believe the central premise of that process in that game? Because the non darts player was there to answer questions, so there was no reason why they couldn't be brilliant at darts as well. But you would be on a hiding to nothing if they were rubbish at answering questions. So you've automatically shrunk the pool from which you're going to pick your non darts player. Think of them not as a non darts player, but as the question answerer. So you need your best player for darts. You get them first. Right? And then you get your cleverest, your cleverest mate. And if the clever mate is good at darts, there's nothing to stop them from being there. But if they're not good at answering questions, and you've prioritized the darts over the questions, you're out in the first round, Rob. But the thing was, I always thought, why, if you were a really good darts player who's really good at questions? Well, the non darts player appeared to be rubbish at darts. No, sometimes they were really good. I don't. They were. I don't. I'm not. But they needed to. They needed to be. To win. You had to be quite good at darts to get a fall, to get all the prizes, to get a really good chance of winning the speedboat, even though you lived on the 14th floor of a tower block, you had to have a. You had to have a fairly good chance of the three darts that the non darts player through, landing in the. In the red, not the black. But I just. I just. I don't recall seeing that many. You're gonna have to trust me. I watch repeats on challenge sometimes, and I'm telling you, I haven't seen a non darts player do very well with any level of frequency. Doesn't have to be frequency. I only have to find one to prove my point. And my point is that there is no test of their poorness at darts, because they have been hired for their brilliance at answering questions. Yeah. The only thing is, I just always thought, why don't you just get an Eric Bristow bambogast going on who could do both? But I just don't. Because bambagasco and darts are going to hit the cameraman. Yeah, but they're supposed to be rubbish at darts. They're not supposed to be. This is the fundamental premise, that you're falling down and they're not supposed to be rubbish at darts. They're supposed to be good at answering questions. They're two very different propositions. I just think that they should. That they would have to have demonstrated. All right, so what? So what if you had that someone did some research and they found out that it was like the top player in the local darts league, and they. And I bet they'd hold. But he wouldn't be the top. He wouldn't be the top player, would he? Because he's with his mate, who's better than him. Well, all right, but let's just say that they. Right, so let's just say that they were in the darts league and they were. Some of them were in the same darts team. Really? Do you know that? Yes. How, what? How do you know that? It came to light when I was preparing for this inquiry, I just think. And the other thing is, if we are going to get someone who's got that joke. Did you get that joke? That was a good joke. That was a topical joke. That was. That was a proper. That's the answer that Matt Hancock just gave at the COVID inquiry. Rob, I've just. I've just been missing out a bit on the older word, word for word. He only did it. We only got it 20 minutes ago. I've just turned it into a darts Bates joke. That is genius, even though I say so myself. That's why you get paid the big bucks. It is why I get paid the big bucks. But they did. Sometimes they were in the same darts team. So, I mean, we could do this all day, but your fundamental go on. One thing, the only other problem with this, I suppose, is we're potentially relying on the answerer to be from a generation who's participated in bullseye, which is a big ask, but nevertheless, there may be someone who. I am right, of that I am certain, but I will leave it on the board. I did make the mistake of presuming that Tony Green had followed Jim Bowen to the great. To the great hockey in the sky just the other day. Probably where your question came from. Actually, I've been storing it up for a long time, but I knew it ring true with you being from a similar generation to me and big fan of bullshit, I could tell you. I could tell that. So I thought it might. I'll put it on the board. All we need is someone that competed on it. But as you say, that that will possibly be a. A smaller constituency than we might. Than we might all hope. Also not necessarily a particularly fit cohort of the population, the darts enthusiast, although that's changed a little over the years. Rob. Thank you. How did they. Or rather, I think we'll change the question. Did they do anything to check the dart skill level of the contestants on Bullseye that were there for their brains, not their darts skills? And all we need is to find one person that went on it and the answer will be no for the reasons that I've already explained. But I won't give myself a round of applause yet because that would be a bit presumptuous. In one mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 19 minutes after twelve and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why does Dean need to adjust his rearview mirror when he gets into his car in the morning? I know this. I've worked it out since he asked the question and I was quite close, but not quite close enough. So someone. But not quite an open goal there. But there's a lovely round of applause up for grabs and, of course, a chance to win the mystery hour board game. Are Seagulls really more aggressive in Brighton? And if so, why? And did they do anything to check upon the inadequacy at darts of the non darts playing partner in a bullseye quiz team? So it's slightly one for the ages there, but one of my younger colleagues looking at me with an air of befuddlement. But as Dave reminded us, you can watch repeats on challenge tv. 20 minutes after twelve is the time Steve's in fleet. Steve, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Like most people, I have a wheelie bin and embossed in the lid, or on the lid as part of the moulding. It shows the urine manufacturer, it shows a CE mark and below that it shows 95 decibels. Lowercase D, uppercase B, which you will know stands for decibels. I know the answer to the question you're about to ask, but I will carry my wheelie bin. Have a noise radio. Yeah. Well, we finished our Brexit conversation, Steve, in the last hour. What's Brexit got to do with my wheelie bin? Well, I think you will find it was a European Union regulation introduced to manufacturers of wheelie bins to put a limit on the amount of noise a bin could make while being wheeled along or having its lid shut. Well, 95 decibels equates roughly to that of a motorcycle. Not quite. It's closer to a food. Food mixer. Anyway, I think. Are you sure it's 95, not 91? It's 95. It's quite. That's quite high, actually, for. But also lawnmowers. There were limits put upon how much irritation you could cause your neighbors with anything from a bin to a lawnmower. It was one of those pesky laws that we were required. Lots of noise making things have that marking on them. That's the answer. Seems extraordinarily strange for something that is so quiet. No, no, no, not really. Are you kidding? What score? Can I ask what. What kind of house do you live in? Do you live on a busy street or are you in the sticks in a quiet cul de sac? Well, I mean, when the bins get done in the morning, it depends partly upon the bin operatives and how much care they're taking. Not to disrupt the. But if you've got an early collection, you flipping well know about it. We do get early collections. Yes, but 95 decibels is loud. It is loud, but, I mean, it's not. You're not going to build it. That's the limit that you can go up to. Ideally, it'll be half that, won't it? But the point is you can't go any higher than that. So it means they have to use a different composite of plastic or they have to have slightly higher quality wheels or whatever it may be. This is the answer. I mean, it's one of those weird things I picked up when we were talking about Brexit every day, because people used to, people would ring in and I'd say, what laws are you looking forward to not having to obey anymore? So I thought, well, I better find out whether there are any actual laws that people might find a little bit restrictive. Sounds very feasible. It's not feasible. It's completely factual. But 95 decibels are much too high. Yes, but it won't be 95, that's the limit. You can't go any higher than that, and very few bins will go near it. But they've got to put it somewhere and they've put it there. If you get. If you get a bin lid and you slam it down as loud as you possibly can, then you're going to be getting close, probably just in that tiny moment, as opposed to with something that's on permanently, like a motorcycle engine or a food processor. In that tiny moment, if it was a needle, it might just spark up to 91, 92, 93, but it's not allowed to go above 95. But no one's going to be standing there slamming a bin lid up and down for ten minutes, are they? Unless they're weird. So, as we've left the EU now, can I grind it off? I mean. No, it's better than that. You could make one out of symbols. You could get a bin made out of symbols, mate. You could get a bloody great cymbal instead of a bin lid and just smash it down as loud as you want all day. And that's freedom. That is. That's. Do you know what that is, Steve? What's that? That's the sound of sovereignty, mate. Okay, well, I think you've answered the question, but I'm taking my. I'm having a round of applause as well. No higher than eight decibels. Those are the rules. 24 minutes after twelve. I cannot believe that that little bit of information that I must have filed away around 2016, 2017 has finally come in useful. Although I thought in my head it was 91 decibels. Thank you, Steve. Everyone's going to check their bin tonight. Alex is in Kingston. Alex, question or answer? James. Hi. It's an answer. Hopefully an answer. We'll come back to you. Your phone line's gone. Very funny. Since we put you through. Not your fault, not our fault, nobody's fault. Claudine is in Barnett. Claudine, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. Why is it, when you have the flu, that your joints and your muscles hurt and the soles of your feet, why is that? I know it's inflammation, but why does it make you. Why does it make them hurt? Everything hurts. Everything does hurt. But why? I don't know. It's a great question. Well, let's have a think. We should know this, shouldn't we, if your immune system is going into fighting the flu virus or the cold virus and therefore your natural pain. No, it doesn't really work. I'm good on bins. Ask me something about bins now. I've got all my bin questions answered already, but my cousin was not very well in Korea, she's had the korean flu and we were trying to work out this question. So if somebody is medical. Yeah. Why does everything ache when you've got. When you've got a flu? It's a symptom of flu rather than a side effect. An actual symptom. But the question still stands, doesn't it? Why would a cold virus make the soles of your feet ache? Thank you, Claudine. That's a nice question and it is on the list. 034-56-0609 if you can answer it. Let's go back to Alex in Kingston. Alex, question or answer? James. It's an answer. Hopefully you can hear me this time. Carry on. Yeah. So you're taller in the morning than you are in the evening? Oh, yes. When you stretch out in bed, your spine elongates by only a couple of centimeters. And so when you sit in the car, just think about it. If Dean was here, we'd have to ask him whether he's adjusting it up or down. And I think he'll be adjusting it up. And you think he'll be adjusting it down? No, you'd be adjusting it up. If you're taller, you need to adjust. You need to tilt it up, don't you? But he will be shorter at the end of the day. But wasn't the question that when you get in the car in the morning. Yeah, but when you get out of the car. So I think it is because the chair has sunk. I think he also adjusts it during the day, don't you? And then he adjusts it back in the morning. No. So I've noticed it in the morning. Well, I say no, because the chair sunk into the chair. It's more likely that it's the sinking into the chair that has caused it than the actual expansion of the body, surely. I think it might be a combination of the boat. Because you are definitely 2 cm, give or take, taller in the morning than you are in 2 cm, give or take. That's why when anyone asks me how tall I am, I say I'm five foot ten straight out of bed. Are you serious on that? I don't think this is true. So what is it? Is it gravity? Gravity forcing us down that makes us get a bit shorter in the course of the day? Exactly. Yeah. 100%. Stop saying 100%. Because clearly not 100%. 90. 50%. 52%. 52% shrinking. 48%. The check as you approach the end of the day. Okay, so you park up at the end, you're driving through the day, a slow process of the mirror no longer being in an optimum position because you are both shrinking and sinking. So both, both. You're shrinking and sinking, but you don't really notice it because it's incremental. But when you get into the car the next day, you're at both optimum height and the seat is at optimum foam expansion. And you think, crikey, I'll just adjust that slightly and then it's back to optimum mirror position. You'd be doing it every day. Then you'd be doing. I do do it every day. Yeah, but twice every day. But do you do it twice every day? No, not. Not twice every day. I normally get out the car. Well, now it would be horizontal. It would be. It would be facing the floor. Now it would be. Because you're doing it a centimeter downwards every day and you're never putting it back up again. No, you kind of scoot you in the seat a little bit during the day because it's, it's, it's tiny increments, isn't it? You're doing the mirror, you've got the biggest differential. Stop. The mirror is being adjusted every day. So. So by rights it would have done about three full circulations by the end of July. No, it's like, it's like leap years. And eventually you'll adjust it once or twice and it'll catch up with itself. Eventually. Just it back up. Back up again. Yeah, but then in the morning where there's the massive differential and you get in. He might not do it every single day. He said he did. He said, he said he did it every single day. And if he's not adjusting it back at any point in the day, then shrinking and thinking doesn't matter at all, does it? It makes no sense. Well, maybe. Well, I think. I think maybe more likely he's mistaken about doing it every day than the fact or he hasn't noticed. Or he hasn't noticed that he's readjusting it in the course of the day. That's more likely? Possibly. Possibly more likely. But we'll go with shrinking and sinking is the answer as to why you're angle on the mirror is different in the morning than it is when you get out of the car in the evening. I think. So you slouch a bit. You slouch a bit as you get sleepy and all that kind of thing. Yeah, I think I just, I described it as scooting down in the sea. You do adjust your seat position throughout the day in your car. I think you can do. I've noticed it. Do you think this is true from Jess in Brockworth? I used to work at Disneyland and we often had to disappoint small children who were not quite tall enough for a ride in the morning. But then. No, they were tall enough for a ride in the morning but then they were too short when they came back later in the day. Would have been really close to start with. Yeah, you would be. They're quite strict about it, aren't they? So if it could be up to an inch, 2 cm, you said. I went to Legoland the other, the other week with my daughters and they were pretty liberal. Legolanda, they're not like, you know, Disneyland. Some of the rides at Disneyland are a bit more hardcore than the rides at Lego. Yeah. Well, anyway, I'll give you a round of applause. Shrinking and sinking and I've got no reason to believe that Jess is yanking our collective change could also be a looseness in the mirror hinge. This is why I don't do motoring questions, because I just said the phrase a looseness in the mirror hinge. Oh, you've got a loose mirror hinge. That's why we don't do motoring questions on mystery hour, because you just made me say loose mirror hinge. Amelia Cox is here now with her headlines mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1234, and this is mystery hour. The rear view mirror question. I think that I am satisfied with that answer. However, questions that still need answers include the bullseye question, the aching muscles question, and the seagulls question. I think that's the lot. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer any of those, or if indeed you have a question of your own. Eli is in Jerusalem. Eli, question or answer? It's a question. James, carry on. First off, can I just say, like, it's been quite hard times here in Israel? Well, I was going to wait for you to reference that, so I'm glad you've done that. And especially, like, today, there was this terror attack and just, like, thinking this mystery arrow came and it's just a bit of hope and happiness. What an amazing thing to say. Thank you, mate. And stay safe. So I just want you to know that. Thank you. Yeah, thanks a lot. Okay. Getting onto the question, I wanted to know, like, is there any sort of limit that you can have in a memory? So say, like, not. And then getting older, you start to lose your memory, which is something you reference quite a bit. But I'm talking, like, just like, we think of memory of your brain, like, as a. If you think of it, like, as an SD card or, like, a memory drive, is it, like, a limit to how much knowledge you can, like, cram in and before test before, like, it's too much. You mean it's a human memory? Like, got gigabytes or petabytes or whatever you'd call it. I understand over a course of time, you could obviously amass knowledge, but, like, could we say one sitting or something? Is there, like a limit or. No, I love the question. I think something happens. There's two different types of memory. Someone has explained before on mystery hour, where you can. You might not. I can hit 04:00 today. I won't be able to remember what we did in the second hour of the program, but I will be able to remember what I had to eat on my wedding day. Do you see what I mean? There's, like, two files, one for short term, one like. I was discussing this with a friend, and he was suggesting perhaps a reason that why all the people do start losing memory is because they. It's full. Like, at the point that it's full. I love that the memory is full. Sorry, I've got no idea. My memory is full. I don't think so. But I'll get you a better answer than that, Eli. I promise. If you could. Well, I can't promise I'll do my level. I can promise to try and take care of yourself, and I hope things are. Well. Obviously, we all hope things are better where you are sooner rather than later, Eli. A sobering. A sobering contribution. Thank you for it. Gary is in Catford. Gary, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. The question is, various breweries produce a dark beer that they refer to as IPA. It's not that dark. Well, darkish. It's my understanding that the IPA is an abbreviation for India pale ale. Yes. So that's. So it's not dark, then, is it's a pale ale? Well, okay, it's darker than a lager, but it's not as dark as a stout or even as a bit about the same. Anyway, it's a pale ale. An India pale ale. Yeah. India pale ale, yeah. So I suppose I'm using the term generally dark, darker than lager and that sort of thing. Yeah. What the question is, is why is it referred to as India pay layo? What's the connection with India? Is there some kind of historic connection with India where that IPA or India pale? Well, yeah, so I can't take the win on this because I know it was for export to India. Export to India. But why it would be preferable. I mean, I presume that it has got something to do with how hot it was in India and therefore you wanted a slightly. This is before lager was invented, so it would be a more refreshing drink than a pint of heavy or a pint of best, or even, obviously, a pint of stout. But I don't know that. I don't know that bit for sure. I don't know that bit for sure. What the reason why it was preferable to have that kind of beer, as opposed to the other beers that would have been available at the time, because you could have small beer, couldn't you, when you could have a very low alcohol content, which they drank instead of water, effectively because you'd get cholera from the water. So why in what is indian about India? Pale ale. Yeah. That's what my kind of. I like it. Curiosity is. Yeah, no, mine, too, now. I mean, it must have been something to do with the East India Company and when we were exporting loads of stuff to India. But why did they need a special. A special beer? Thank you, mate. Thank you. Do you like a pint of IPA? Do you? I do, yeah. I do have a drop now and again. Yeah. They're a very, um. It's a very mixed bag I got. There was one last night, I didn't have it in the end. It was in a fuller's pub. It was a tropical IPA. So I don't know what the actual criteria are that make it an IPA as opposed to something as. Then you get the american IPAs, like, what's the one I like called. This is proving Eli's point from the last conversation. There's a goose one, isn't there? That's nice. Anyway, I don't know what is the definition of an IPA, but also, what's it got to do with India? Mind how you go, Gary. Thank you. 20 minutes to one is the time. Zero three. Sierra Nevada. Oh, thank goodness for that. I was getting worried. I do like a Sierra Nevada, particularly on drought. Also something you get in a fuller's pubs. I do think Fuller's pubs are the best pubs in London, by the way. I make no apology. Yeah, no, I do. Don't look at me like that. Delicious. Good food as well. Alex is in Gibraltar. Alex, question or answer? I've moved to Radlin now. Have you really? And you're still on Gibraltar? On our screen, yeah. Yeah. And you know why we've moved, don't you, James? Brexit, mate. No, no, no. Why? Well, we've got to be eligible for the board game, haven't we? So. Oh, I see. So you're in. You're actually in radlet. Nudge nudge, wink wink. Are you? No, no, we have. We have moved to radio. Okay, well, now you are eligible to win the ball game. That's a big. I mean, it's quite a big decision, life decision to make just to access something that you could buy yourself in 1999. But who am I to question your reasoning? Who am I to quibble? Go on. One reason of a long list. It's a question, James. It's my wife's question. Let's have it. Yes. The question is, why do we pass wind more as we age? I don't think that's true. I mean, I appreciate this is anecdote. I've not read an academic study that says it is, but, you know, from anecdotal, I don't think it's true, do you? Well, did you go to boarding school? I didn't know. See, I think that gives you an insight. I mean, there's always a few lads. There's always a few lads if you share a room with 14 other teenage boys. Holy moly. But that's different. That's different. That's intentional monkeying around, isn't it? No, it's not the same as. That's different to changes in, I don't know, capacity to physiognomy, digestion. I mean, I wouldn't have thought physically, if you're eating well, I mean, the only real answer would be that you're eating more food because the chemical processes of digestion would just cause an increase in gas. Well, you're just not as good at it. You're not as good at. It. Won't be that you're bigger. You're bigger. You've got. I don't know, but I can't. I don't. I don't think there'll be a reason that's linked to age. I'll put it on the board. Why does Alex fart more the older he gets is what we're really asking here, isn't it? Well. Or does he? Well, I think, seeing as it's your wife's question, I think we can be fairly confident that you do, mate. Well, that's probably. It gets worse. You're drinking alcohol when you're older. You're not drinking alcohol when you're younger. Well, I drink less alcohol now. Maybe that's. I don't know. Well, I took the same now as I did when I was eight. Very difficult childhood, clearly. All right, you're on the board. Why did we break Windmore as we get older? Working on the presumption that we do, which may be challenged, but we'll accept it for the purpose of this question. Thank you, Alex. Welcome back to blighty from your travels. So, flatulence. IPA. Information retention. Muscle. Aching muscles. Darts and seagulls. Brian's in Cannock. Brian. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Brian. Right, so this is an answer to the memory question. I can't remember that. What was it again? Sorry? Yeah, so, basically, memory is hugely complex, but to keep it simple, there are essentially two types of memory, short term and long term. Yes. Right, so, short term memory. And you have to repeat the item in your head over and over and over again to keep it in that. In memory, long term memory created by the connection of neurons to each other. Yes. And there are probably. I mean, I'm sure there is. And there is probably a finite limit to the number of neural connections that you can get, but to all intents and purposes, there isn't. I understand. So theoretically there probably is. But we're never going to reach it. Exactly, yes. Yeah. So basically, the more that you use a particular item of information, every time you use it, that neural network is strengthened. So the more that you use a piece of information, the more likely it is you'll remember it. As you get older, what happens is that if you don't use the information, the neural network starts to gradually break down and eventually you forget that piece of information. Right. So as you get older, obviously you've got more and more information that you can forget and if you haven't used it for a long time, you're going to forget more and more. So I like to memorize poems. I usually have about ten at my fingertips and some of them, the ones that I memorized first at school, they're never going to go. They're so embedded now in my memory that I can recite them now, but the ones that I've learned latterly, if I don't refresh my memory quite frequently, then I find that I've forgotten them again. Exactly. That's exactly right. Qualifications? I'm a retired clinical psychologist. That'll do nicely. That's a brilliant answer and it gets you a round of applause. Thank you, Brian. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And that addresses Eli's question, which I was particularly keen to get an answer to today. Thank you. 1246 is the time. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 49 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the mystery continues. Let's crack on and we need answers. Don't ring me about IPA. Listen, seriously, stop what you're doing now. Don't ring about the IPA question because we're not going to get any other answers. Beer is a bit like motoring. The enthusiasm levels are off the charts. I think we've got an answer on IPA and it's probably not true. Oddly, a friend of mine who's a landlord has been in touch, but I won't let that spoil the parade. Don't ring. Stop it. Don't ring me about IPA. I need questions to the answers of whether I need answers to the questions, even of whether the seagulls in Brighton are really more aggressive than the seagulls in Bournemouth. And if so, why did they do anything? To check the dart skills of the non darts playing partner in a bullseye team. Zero. 345-606-0973 why do our muscles ache when we've got flu or a cold virus? And do we break wind more as we get older? Those are the ones that I need answers to. All right. Miguel is in Milton Keynes. Miguel, question or answer? Hello, James. These are questions. Carry on. I was watching the Portugal game against Liechtenstein the other day and to my surprise, the national anthem from Liechtenstein sounds exactly like the God saved the king. Are you sure? Are you sure? Exactly. I think we should check. Please. You speak truth, Miguel? Yes. And you want to know why. Yes. Yes. Why? It's a perfectly reasonable question. Obernam jungen rhein. Obey. Gone. High on the young Rhine. Young rhine. Young rhine. The river high on the young Rhine. Like the early bit. So Liechtenstein. The rhine is quite new when it's in Liechtenstein. So high on the young Rhine. Obenheim youngen Rhein. But why? I just don't get it. Why is so similar to music? The answer is lots of them. Did I think Lichenstein is the only one that still does? But I think a Prussian. I think the prussian national anthem in sort of Bismarck's time might have been the same tune as well. There's no reason why it shouldn't. There's no reason why it shouldn't be. Really? Yes. True. Yeah. Just. They liked it. I don't know whether they like the english one and put their own words to it or whether it has something to do with the fact that the kaiser and the king were cousins or. But I mean. Yes. Just sort of thought. I like that. We'll have a bit of that. We'll put our own words to it. German speaking nations. German speaking nations had it as a. I mean, that's it, really. But your ear. Your ears did not. Your ears did not deceive you. No, we didn't. That's why we were ready to have dinner and suddenly. What's going on? They're supposed to be playing Liechtenstein, not England. You thought you were not England. Yes, exactly. Well, I mean, I'll give myself a round of applause because I don't think I've had any yet today. No, you're right. Thank you. But. But there might. It is apparently my second one. But if there is another answer to it, then we'll get that. Well, we probably won't, because we're out of time. Andrew's in Blackburn. Andrew, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Let's make it snappy, if we can. The pale ale. India pale ale. Question. Yes. Why is it called India pale ale? It's because it was originally brewed in around about the 1820s, 1830s, for export to India. In fact, it used to be called pale ale for India, and they over hopped it and they made it slightly bit more alcoholic because both hops and alcohol have preservative effects. And they were finding that normal beer would spoil during the four, five, six months sale, because this was in the days of galleon ships and they were only stored in wooden casks, so they would overhot the beer and they would also make it slightly more alcoholic to survive the journey. The diplomats from the East India Company came back to the UK. They liked all the hot beer and they wanted to drink it in the UK. So it started. Qualifications? I'm a home brewer writing a book on the history of beer. Are you really? Oh, send me a copy. Send me a copy when you're finished. Well, it's a mixture of homebrew, how to home brew different styles of beer. And before I give you the recipe, I'll tell you all about the history of that style of beer. That sounds an absolutely fascinating read. Have a random of applause on me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Some rather sad news. Alistair Darling, who, of course, was chancellor under Gordon Brown at the time of the financial crisis and a member of parliament from 1987 until stepping down just in 2015, has died at the age of 70. His family have just announced. So it's one of those days where quite a lot of people seem to. Prominent people seem to be passing away. If you're just joining me, Alistair Darling, the former treasury minister, former chancellor of the Exchequer and scottish secretary, who'd been in the House of Lords since 2015, has died at the age of 75. Minutes to one is the time. Nixon, Hastings. Nick, question or answer? Oh, it's James. Hi there. Yeah, 600. And, caller. The answer is, I lived in Burma for 21 years when I was younger. The answer is, there are different species of seagull. Seriously? Yeah, yeah. Okay. Bournemouth ones, I believe, are common goals. I might be wrong on that one, but I think they're common goals. Come along the coast. Brighton. I live in Hastings now, which sort of gives me the difference. The seagulls here and in Brighton are Herringgolds. They are about twice the size, very, very aggressive, and probably it may be wrong, but it could be the fishing industry. We have fishing industry in Hastings. There isn't one in Bournemouth. So the herringbowls will chase the fishing boat. They will chase the trawlers, as Eric Canton famously observed. Well, exactly, yeah. And they also steal your fish and chips and generally mug you. So it does make some sense then it will be a species based distinction. I love that. And your qualifications are that you've lived in both places. We also get the common gulls here and they sort of hang around right at the end of the town and they sort of don't deserve anyone, really. No. Right. Round of applause, please, for Nick. That's a lovely answer on the goals. Question for Finn. Bart Robbins in Manchester. Robin, question or answer? I've got an answer, James, carry on. The myalgia, the pain, muscle pain, aches and pains of flu. It's called myalgia, which is inflammation of the muscles. Oh, yes. And when you get infected by a virus, your body obviously fights off that virus to get rid of it. Yes. That involves white blood cells joining onto the virus which then actually targets them for attack from the body's immune response. But part of that, it creates of cascade of inflammatory chemicals called cytokines, and they are a bit of an irritant elsewhere in the body, so they cause inflammation within the muscle cells and the lining of the joint cells. So you get the aches and pains of the joint and muscles. Qualifications? I am a doctor that you once called doctor fingers. Doctor fingers. Round of applause for doctor fingers, please. I'm not explaining that. I haven't got time. Laura's in woking. Laura, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Yeah, it's to the bullseye question. Oh, sensational. Go on. Yeah, so bear with me. A little bit nervous. More than I should be. So it's only me, but, yeah, you're pretty much right. I don't really think there was any checking system as to how good the non playing dark player was. It was more to do with how they answered the questions. I mean, there's been instances of kind of top level county players and other types of players both playing in the same team at Bullseye. But, yeah, I think it was more to do with kind of how you were in terms of answering the questions. What are your qualifications? I am a dart player. I went through the process of Bullseye. Did you? For the more recent revival. But I've played at the world championship, so they wouldn't let me on it. Even as the darts partner, you weren't allowed to play if you're not. Well, if you've seen me play, you may disagree, but. Yeah, and I do commentary for Sky Sports darts. I've just seen you. I've just found you on Twitter. Laura Turner, you are. I sounded like Yoda then. I don't know why I said Laura, but someone else has replied to you. I don't know if you saw it. Remembering when the non dart player stepped up and hit two treble 19 straight off, so there was no limit on how. So that's. That's Rob told, isn't it? Who asked the question? You just. You would not pick someone who was brilliant at darts. You would pick someone who was brilliant at questions. And if they happened to be good at darts, then you were golden. You were, you were. You were over the line. Yeah. Absolute bonus. Thank you, Laura. Big round of applause. I'm going to give it to Rob, who asked the bullseye question. Actually, that was probably my favorite. I haven't got time for the Shane McGowan thing, so I may do something tomorrow. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also pause and rewind live radio. All of LBC's shows are there, as well as the world's biggest podcast, pause and rewind live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Get it from your App Store or just go straight to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Swarbrick. At six this evening, I will be at Foyles on Charing crossroads signing books for your Christmas stockings with lots and lots of other authors. So do try and come along to that if you can. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.