You're both right

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery Hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is someone rings in with a question, we chat for a bit and then someone rings in with the answer, we chat for a bit more and establish whether or not that answer is actually correct or definitive, as we like to say. And if it is definitive, they get a round of applause. And if their qualifications, which I will check, are so astonishingly appropriate for the question that they have answered, then they will receive the highest accolade that british radio can bestow upon a caller, a Ray Liotta. And I'm not going to tell you what that is, you'll just have to hope that someone is sufficiently brilliant to get one. Speaking of brilliant, the best caller, the best contributor, my favorite questioner or answerer will receive a mystery hour board game, a James O'Brien's mystery hour board game, available in branches of John Lewis and at mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Go to the LBC. Hang on a minute, there we go. Go to LBC dot co dot UK for the full terms and conditions. Shall we crack on? Shall we do it? Are we good? I think we are. Start with Emma, who is in Epsom. Emma, question or answer? Hi. It's a question. Carry on. So I'm wondering why we categorize certain foods into certain meals or times of the day. Yes. So you wouldn't have a steak sandwich or a steak and chips for breakfast, would you? Yes. So typically, you wouldn't have porridge as your dinner meal, but hang on, I mean, it's simpler than that, isn't it? Well, you would actually. You might have a mixed grill for breakfast, Emma, you know. Yeah, but I mean, like your typical breakfast, so I understand. Like a fried breakfast. Yeah, we have. We have a fry up in the UK. It's like a typical breakfast, but your usual things of cereal, toast, is it not just appetite? We just don't want to eat that much food, is it not? Are you shaking your head at me? Sorry? I'm talking to Keith, not you. I can't see whether you're shaking your head or not. Perfectly reasonable if you are. Well, I mean, I don't think so, because it's all come about. Because this morning I found myself looking for something to have for breakfast. I didn't fancy cereal or toast? Enough. I've had. I have in the fridge what I made last night. Have for lunch today. What was that? My brain, initially, I had some rice and some mince. Okay. Like a bolognese mince. A bolognese mince with tomato sauce. It was like a thai. Thai minced pork. Minced pork. Oh, I love that. Yeah. Delicious. With a bit of lemongrass and chilli, something like that. Was it. It had, yeah. I mean, I don't like spice, so it didn't have chili in it, but, yeah, it should have done. Ah, you left the chili out. Interesting. And, well, they would have that for breakfast in Thailand, I think. Right, okay, so then it's more of a cultural thing. It might be. I don't know. We'll find out. So. And did you. You weren't tempted to have a bit of that for breakfast or not? No, I did. You did have that for breakfast. What are you gonna have for lunch, Emma? But my brain was telling me that it was. It was wrong. The dumb thing to do. It was wrong. It was wrong. Yeah. What. What are you gonna have for lunch if you've just had that? Oh, Lord. You just kicked the problem down the road, haven't you? Just kicked the problem down the road? Emma, you're part of that anti growth coalition I keep hearing about, aren't you? People who have their lunch for breakfast should have been on Liz Truss's list yesterday. Why else? Why? Yeah, why do we have breakfast? Stuff for breakfast? I think it might be appetite. But Keith's shaking his head at me. Yeah, I mean, I get that. But then. Yeah, I mean, that was. Have a look. No, you're. This morning. Thank you. I like it, actually. It's growing on me the more I think about that question. Thank you, Emma. We shall try and find out. James writes, I would absolutely have steak and chips for breakfast. Chuck a fried egg on as well. And you're living the dream, says Jason Tunbridge. Well, so I think you're probably right. I don't know if I'd have chips. Would I have chips? I don't think I'd have. I don't know. Thank you, Emma. Tony's in Chingford. Tony, question or answer? Morning. Yes. Question, please carry on, Tony. Yeah, I read a lot of fantasy and sci-Fi and quite often one of the plot devices is something amazing happens when all the planets line up. Okay. I was wondering, in reality, when the planets do line up, does anything interesting actually happen? You get an eclipse, wouldn't you? Yeah. I mean, all the planets lining up, you know, I mean, I don't know. The eclipse, is that amazing? Is there something physical if an eclipse is. Now, have you ever seen an eclipse? Don't look at it, but you know what I mean. Actually, when I was a kid in Australia, we had an eclipse and we all had those special classes. Yeah, we had. No, we made like his telescope thing. Was it amazing? Was it amazing? Yeah, actually it was. There you go. There you go then. So, yeah, amazing things happen when the planets align. You get an eclipse. Well, that's a very good one. You can get half a round of. No, no, I'm having a whole round of. Keith, what are you doing? Get your finger out with you, Keith. Well, I need to be quick there. Comic timing. Comic timing. Keith, Keith, Keith, comic timing. So you mean. I mean, would all the planets in the solar system ever, ever align? I don't know. Would they? Well, I actually looked at it just for phoned up and it does happen quite regularly in a general alignment, but apparently about every. But what sort of thing would. I mean, in Sci-Fi presumably you get a new emperor, do you? Or something like that. Or you get. Yeah, but what would happen in reality? I mean, what could happen on Earth in reality if all the planets in the solar system were in a. Some sort of thing with gravity or. Oh, okay, so like, all the spoons started heading to the nearest something got magnetized, something like that, or, I don't know, does that magnetic field change? Do we get. Hang on, stay there, Tony. Wait there. I'm going to put that round of applause. Can I put that back in the box, please, Keith? Thank you very much. Right, I put that back and now it's. Now it's up and it's up and running. Does anything actually happen in. Does anything exciting happen in reality when all the planets align? Yeah, a grand conjunction, we could call it. Yes, a very, very good conjunction as well, because it can't just be a basic alignment, it needs to be a grand align. A grand conjunction. I don't know who sent that phrase in. They didn't sign their text. Apparently Jesus was born at a grand conjunction. But that is not the sort of answer that you're currently looking for. Ten minutes after twelve is a time. Thank you, Tony. I love that one. Breakfasts and grand conjunctions. It's all happening. Chris is in Brighton. Chris, question or answer? Hey, James, there's a question. Please, carry on, mate. Why is soapbox racing called soapbox racing? It's a question for my son, really, which I said I'd what is soapbox racing? Well, it's sort of like go karting downhill. Well, it's. Because the original go karts were made out of boxes. What soap came in it? This is it. I did that thing. I went. I took my son to this one in Eastbourne the other week, and he turned around to me and he said, why is it called soapbox racing? And I didn't know. And I didn't want to do that dad thing of going, I'm gonna have a wild stab at this, because it's probably right. And he said you could. You could phone into mystery hour. So I just wanted to get that cleared up. So I can't take a round of applause. Then we need someone to actually go definitive, because it's almost certainly gonna be. It's gotta be. Well, whenever I say that phrase, it's almost certainly gotta be, it always comes back to haunt me. It always comes back to bite you. It really does. So we'll just find out. Why is soapbot racing called soapbot racing? From someone that actually knows. I'm sure we're both right. Yeah, I am as well. But as I say, the more sure I am that I'm sure that I'm right, often the more shaky the ground beneath my feet turns out to be. Thank you, Chris. Why is soapbox racing called soapbox racing? Peters and Milton Keynes. Peter, question or answer? Hi, my name is Tita. Dieter. My apologies. Don't worry. No, I do worry. Details are important, Dieter. Can we change that? Hang on. Wait there, because I'm going to call you Peter again in a minute. He's called Dieter, not Peter. Can we change it on the screen, please? The D I e t e R. It's german. Thank you. Very good. Yes, carry on, Dieter. Right, I have a question. We always talk about global warming, and global warming is obviously an average temperature. Yes. I would want to know how this average temperature is calculated. So you need for averages, you need points of where you measure the temperature. You can make 100 points in the sahara and you get a very high temperature. You can. I mean, again, I hesitate to say it's obvious, but wouldn't they just collate a bunch of temperatures from all over the place and work out the average? Yeah. Yeah. How many. How many points are. So how do they calculate it? You want to know specifically, rather than. Yeah. Rather than my meanderings, my. My pontification? Yes. Well, we can go over the whole globe, but where do we get those measuring points? You know, are the satellites. Are they doing it with satellites? How are they doing? This, basically, is the question. I like it. It's a great question. Thank you, Dieter. Do you know how they've spelled. Hang on a minute. Dieter. I worked with a lovely bloke called Dieter back in my, my suit selling days. Do you know how they spelt your name on the screen? No. I told them how to spell it. Do you remember? Did you hear me say how to spell it? I said d I e r. They spelled it. Yes, that's correct. I know it's correct. Do you know how they've spelt it? They spelled it d I t a. Tita. Oh, it's probably an indian. There's an indian. Sounds a bit. I came across that. But if you ever ring back, they may. They may address you incorrectly as a consequence. I'll tell you what, I'll get it fixed. Leave it with me. I'm not going to tell you my surname, then you get a thank you, Tito. Thank you. No, thank you. Thank you. 13 after twelve is the time. Adam isn't now there. No one's ever misspelled Adam, have they? I wouldn't have thought d a m, unless you. If you're wondering, it's Adam, is it? Yeah. I'm psychic. I thought it would be question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. It's the breakfast one. Breakfast means breakfast. Sorry. I think it's more of an opinion, but my opinion is it's cultural. I worked on ships for about ten years and if anyone spent more than five minutes on the ship, you'll know that. Pretty. It's made up of so many accruing staff, it's made up of so many nationalities, but there are always a good portion of Filipinos on this. They're so hard work, they're so hardworking. It's just absolutely mental. And whether you're in the crew mess or the officers mess, every single meal there is always a big vat of white rice. Oh, always. Doesn't matter. I wasn't going to call in and then the lady who was asking the question said, well, actually, I'd rice in specifically talking about sort of southeast asian food. Yeah. I personally think it is. It's a cultural thing. What about the size of the meal, though? I thought that might have something to do. We have a smaller meal for breakfast because we've only just woken up and our body isn't really firing on all cylinders yet. Granted, but you look at a typical. If you look at stereotypes, you look at a typical british breakfast and it's the full English. You look at the typical american breakfast. And you say, well, they have literally the weirdest things with weirdest things, you know, sausage patty with a load of honey on there. Pancakes. Pancakes and grits for everything. Grits. But I think the size is. I think the size is irrelevant. It's what a stereotype speaks to a culture's breakfast. But I think it is all cultural. Well, hang on, I've got a few more thoughts. Preparation time. Yeah. Breakfast. You want something that you're not. You're not going to spend an hour getting your breakfast ready, are you? Because that would be in your bed, out the door. Minimal amount of time spent preparing you. So for breakfast, you've got ready made rice. So that works. But you're going to have some cereal because you don't have to cook it. Most people aren't going to have a cooked breakfast on a weekday, on a school night, a school morning or a work morning. Steak and eggs. Traditional cowboy breakfast as well, isn't it? That's it as well. The prep time kind of negates everything. It kind of gives what you're saying, but at the same time, it depends on the day of the week and whether you work. That's true. That's true. So, steak and eggs for cowboys, Paul reminds us. And that wouldn't take long, would it? That wouldn't take long, no, we just had a holiday in Mexico. And where was diablos? And where was rancheros? Cuevas rancheros. Diablos is the ones with the chili sauce on them. Oh, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, I do. I love mexican food. I went to Mexico for my honeymoon. Where did you go? Which bit did you go to? Well, we actually went on a honeymoon there in 2016. It was the first time we were able to get back for my 40th Riviera. Maya? Oh, yes. Yeah. No, the sink. What's it called? That bit there? We were in tulum, so we went down from. Are you a bit further south? Yeah, tiny. But we went through. Playa del Carmen is. We went through, didn't we? We haven't been back and we got married 22 years ago. Anyway, we digress. Adam, thank you for that round of applause. I think. I think between us. But you can have it. I've got those. I love that one. All right, then. Don't spend it all at once. It's 1217 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 20 minutes. 20 minutes after. Todd. Did I tell you about the light box? Keith, did I tell you about this? I've got a light box now. On one of the big floors, you know, because I noticed the other day I was one of the only big shot presenters here at global radio who didn't have any. Like there's a whopping great picture of Sheila Fogarty when you walk through the front door. She looks fantastic in it. But I went on little. I went on a tour next to Mister Jam. That's right. I went on a little tour of the building, wondering where the picture of me would be and I couldn't find one. So I pointed this out and they put one up. That's nice, isn't it? It's nice to feel seen. No, it's not in the toilet. So we're going to have a look at it afterwards. I might do a little ribbon cutting ceremony. Can you make some arrangements? 20 minutes after twelve, back to mystery hour breakfast. I think we pretty much covered that. And actually, Liz reminds me that the. I've been to Sri Lanka as well. I had a beautiful holiday in Sri Lanka, Liz, where you have curry for breakfast and a proper curry as well, with the breads and the rice and the sambal. Oh, Lou, I like a sambal. So, I mean, it is just going to be depending on partly where you are. But I think a large part of the explanation would be ease of preparation. And there was something as well. Keith reminded me about pork marketing pork market. Liz Truss is haunting the program at the pork market just as a way of selling more pork. They sort of created the idea that sausages and bacon would be good for breakfast. And Kellogg himself invented cornflakes as a sort of. I think they were supposed to be. He was a bit weird. The bloke that invented Kellogg's cornflakes. There's a superb book by an author called T Corahesen Boyle called, I think, the road to Welville that was turned into a film and it had something to do with sex. The Cornflake story. I can't remember what, but what a fascinating question. Thank you, Emma. 21 minutes after twelve is the time Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Hello, James. Answer to the question about the modern ways to determine our average, average global temperature. Yes. So you would. On the right lines, there are weather stations positioned all over the planet on both land and. And out at sea on sort of ocean buoys. Yes. They tend to be positioned away from urban heat islands. Okay. To make sure that we don't get that influence of. Yes, man made heat, as it were, as opposed to climate. Yeah. And so the ones that are on land are put in things called Stevenson screen, which just is a box. Bit like a beehive. No, I remember we had one of those at school. Yeah. So they, again, make sure you don't get direct sunlight on the instrumentation. That's the sits within it. Okay. So you just get the air going in and out. Who's in charge? And do we know how many there are? How many? Yeah, well, the Met office in this country has several hundred, but then they're collected from data that's from the other sort of national weather services around the planet. A lot of it will be local, privately owned ones as well, but to kind of fill in some of the detail about how this relates to climate change. So prior to the modern instrumentation, the sort of proxy records were collected from things like what's called dendro climatology, which is measuring the density of tree rings. And a lot of data was collected from ice cores from, particularly from Greenland and Antarctica, to measure kind of oxygen levels and air bubbles that are contained within those ice cores, to measure the temperature within those. And then what happens is, in order to kind of validate the data from that, climate scientists have then done what's called hind cast models, where you kind of understand what the impact would be of that historical record with and without the human influence. So that's why now. So that's why now, when modern scientists sort of, you know, report their data, it is as good as modern kind of weather forecast. You know, we know that this is absolutely 100% fact. Lovely. You know, it's not. Not to be disputed. Oh, perfect. Remind me, qualifications? My masters was in climate change. Indeed it was. Have you already got the ball game? I haven't got a ball. No problem. Just. Just checking. You're on the list. You're a contender. But there's no clues there and no special. I just couldn't remember whether I'd given you one before or not because you've certainly had a lot of these. Yeah. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much, Andy. And thank you for all that you do. Sean's in concert in County Durham. Sean, question or answer? Question. Myth. Carry on. Why do I call it bubble and squeak? Why do you call what bubble and squeaky? You know, the leftovers are your Sunday dinner. Ah. The potatoes and cabbage and the rest of it. Why? They call it bubbling squeak. When did you last cook it? Uh, I thought it was a Tory in a frying pan. But when did you last. Never mind. Um, no, I've never had it for years. Like. Well, if you had, what sort of sound would it make while you were cooking it? No, it would be nothing like that. Probably burnt on the edges, I don't know. No, it would make a bubbling and a squeaking sound because, you know. Yes, it would, man. Because you've put the, you've put the. You've got it all mushed up together. So it's got air bubbles in it and that's going to create a sort of squeaking and a bubbling sound. I mean, when you fry anything. I've never had it squeaking before. But you've never cooked it. You said yourself you hadn't cooked it for years. It doubles, but I've never heard it squeak. It squeak a little bit. Not like a sort of mouse squeak, but a little squeak. They call it in Scotland. They call it something like rumble thumps or something like that for the same. Are you all right there, Sean? Are you alright, mate? Do you want to take them away, man? I just had a bit bacon that went down the wrong wheel. Oh dear, oh dear. Pork market. Yeah, it can be. I mean, usually you just put your chop up what was left of your joint and you have potatoes, cabbage. I like a few sprouts. I have bubble and squeak on Boxing Day, Sean, usually sprouts. Sprouts? Yeah, I like sprouts. If you do. The thing is, for my Christmas sprouts, I do, I do chestnuts and lardons, you know, like bits of bacon cubes. No wonder you squeak and that. Well, that's it, you see. So I put the, I put the baking cubes and the chestnuts in with my sprouts on Christmas day. And I always do more than necessary because the combination of the bacon, the chestnut and the sprout elevates your bubble and squeak to previously undreamt of levels. Sean. My God, you'll never be off the bog. What you talking about? Sprouts? Not. That's not right. Well, the answer to your question is it is called bubble and squeak because that is the sound it makes when you cook it. Very doorbet. Thanks very much. Thank you, Sean. Love to the family. Round the plot. Thank you. 37 minutes after twelve is the time Michael's in Manchester or answer. Uh, answer. I'm actually in Glasgow at the moment. How did that happen? I have no idea. I'm seeing phone lines. You must. You must have phoned me from Manchester before. Yes, I think I find I phoned before. I think it was, uh, about batteries. There it is. So now you're in. Yeah. I shall adjust my records accordingly, Michael. Okay. Well, I travel all around. I'm an engineer, so I, all over the country in the world carry yes answer to the planetary question. Yes, please. Contrary to what you'd see in Disney's Hercules or something like that, when the planets align, nothing happens. Oh, they're basically too far apart and they don't, when scientists and people say that planets align, they don't really align, they're just kind of in the same section of sky. It looks very cool and it happens, you know, as your, as your caller said, fairly regularly, but they're just too far apart. I mean, any gravity interference between planets would be pretty much negligible. I mean, you are talking on the astrological scale here. So, so nothing then. I mean you get the sort of eclipse for a minor conjunction, but for a grand conjunction there's nothing special happening at all. Yeah, I mean, like if you think about the. So they're not all, when you look at a picture of the solar system, they're all on a nice flat plane, but they're all kind of actually not flat plane, they're off kilter and everything like that. So they're really aligned qualifications. So I think the last time, sorry, alignment was in 2020. So there were loads of articles popping up all over the news. Basically people were like, oh, oh, I'm worried about this is some cataclysmic event. But I also used to work at. I mean, this might sound a bit like a shout out at the University of Kent Space School. There's a space school at the University of Kent? Yes. So it's not really a school. It's the first two weekends of August in the first year at Meteor shower. Wow. And eleven and 1811 to 18 year olds can go to this event and basically learn about space for a weekend. That's really great fun. Get pizza and everything. And that's where your qualifications lie academically, is it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I did my undergrad at University of Kent and you go back to help out as a space school? As an undergrad, yeah. Basically you just kind of help out. Basically they get the bunch of guys that live around Kent that have these massive telescopes and they bring it up to the kind of observatory area on the university campus and you point out like, oh, this is Saturn, look, the telescopes are good enough that you can see storms on Saturn, you know, that kind of level of the 5 May 2000 lots of people are mentioning. Did you mention that or did you do something? I think the last one, the articles I read, I think it was 2020, but I could be wrong. And also it's not really that all of the planets align. It's usually they talk about, like three to five to seven or, you know, something like that. It takes, I think, several thousand years for all of them to align in the same section of sky. Not like in a perfect line. Love it. I will give you a round of applause for that. Thank you very much. That's a perfect answer. Well played. Thank you, Michael. This is good. Hi, James. In answer to the question about rice for breakfast, it's a traditional thing and it's all to do with going to the paddy fields with a full stomach in the early hours of the morning so that you don't get hungry until lunchtime. This is because the paddy fields could be miles away from your home, so it would be difficult for you to pop home for a quick snack. For peasant farmers, it was the most cost effective and available food item that you would have access to. And the tradition has carried on into the modern times. It would. And I was right about the, you know, malarkey being involved in the invention of cornflakes. But I'm not going to tell you. I'll let you find out for yourself what that's all about. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1234 and you listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Trying to get answers to the following questions. I think we've done the breakfast, we've done the planets. Why is soapbox racing? Why is it called soapbox racing? And we've done the. We've done almost all of it. We've done the global temperature, we've done bubble and squeak. That's all that's left. Is it the soapbox racing? That's all I've got left on my list. Gosh. Tom's in Glasgow. Tom, question or answer? Hi, James. Thank you for having me on. You're very welcome. I have a question and also an affirmation of your correctness on the soapbox races as well. You can't do both. You can only do what you cleared with the producer, mate. Okay. The question is, and now bear with me on this, there is crossovers between English and French for the days of the week being named after celestial bodies. Right, so Monday is mond the world, or also Lune Lundy. So Luna day. Yeah. Tuesday in French is Monday, Mordi to Mars day, Wednesday Mecurdy Mercury day and so on. Yeah. And. But in English, you then get Saturday Saturn day and Sunday after the sun. Yeah. But there's nothing for Friday. There's no celestial body for Friday. And venge in French. So je d would be Jupiter, would it? Well, I'm assuming so. Why? Because it's a j, so, you know, jangle. Yeah, but Thursday is named after Thor, isn't it? Isn't that named after a viking God? But that would be in English. Yeah. As I say this. Well, it goes across the channel, I think. So where does Friday come from? I think. I mean, in English, Friday is also a norse God, I think. Ah, okay. I'm pretty sure Thursday and Friday are named after norse cod. I don't know where that information has come from, and I'm 52% sure I haven't made it up. But then, if that's the case for us, why do the French call Vondrede and not name it after a planet? Like. I don't know. But that wasn't your original question, was it? I can't be going bilingual on mystery hour, mate. It's complicated enough keeping up with all this stuff as it is. I'm just trying to figure out where Friday comes from. I was having a chat with my daughter. Yes, seven. And we. I was putting her to bed the other night, and we. Freya, isn't it? Freya. Freya, the norse goddess Freya. This Friday. I don't know what the french one is. Sorry, I interrupted you telling me about your daughter. No, no, my daughter. I was putting her to bed, and we were discussing days of the week in French, and I just noticed that there's a cross correlation. Yeah. Between days of the week in. In English. Celestial body. It was lovely that. I mean, you might be completely wrong. It could just be a coincidence. It's got nothing to do with Mars or the moon or mercury or Jupiter, because they wouldn't call them that in French, would they? What's Jupiter in French? Pass. Hey, what about Venus, mate? Venus. Well, that's. That's it. Venus is the. Oh, maybe Venus. Venus. Oh, there we go. Okay, well, we've answered it then, haven't we? There it is. Okay, so every day of the week is named after a celestial body in english and french nose gods in maybe the Vik. I don't know whether they appeared in the constellation. Did they? The norse gods? I don't know. I don't know enough about norse gods, but it was Venus. Yeah. Okay. All right, well, that's great. Thanks for that. That's magical radio. That's all it is. That's incredible. So not only have you answered your own soapbox question. You've also answered my. What did you think? Wednesday? What? Oh, yeah. So here. It's a lot. I know in English, it's a lot to do with norse gods. Rick's just. It's woden for the, uh. Okay, but so the french ones are going to be the. They're gods as well, aren't they? They're not planets, they're gods. Yeah. Mercury. Mercury was the God of whatever. Speed. Yeah, yeah. Oh, is that what it is? No. Thermometers. I should know that. That's why you wanted to do the soap, by the way, canceling out. Don't go there. Let someone else get the round of applause. Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. But there it is. Vondra, D. Venus. Venus, Vonda. You should have worked that one out, Tom. Really. I should have done. I should have said why? I said why? J for Jupiter. You said, because it begins with J. As if I was stupid. And you just missed out the fact that von Dee begins with V e n. It's literally Venus day. Thank you very much, Jay. Thank you very much. Round of applause for all of us. All of us. All of us. Thank you very much, James. Thank you, mate. Take care. Oh, that was fun. I enjoyed that. Ian's in Oakham. Ian, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. Why do we get our age wrong? Pardon? Why do we get our age? No, I mean, I heard you. I don't understand the question. I understand what the words mean. Let me, let me try and give you an example because this really confuses me. Go on then. Okay, so you have a baby. Yeah. And twelve months later we then say that baby has become one. Yeah. And we say that for the next twelve months. Yeah, but they're not. What? As they're experiencing their second instances of everything, you know, second Easter, second Christmas, etc. Yeah, but we still say they're one. Yeah, but they're not. They've been there twice. They've had two christmases. Yeah. So what? So how are they won? Because they haven't got to their second birthday yet. But they've had their second, uh. 7 September. Yeah, but they haven't had their second birthday yet. It's on the. I mean, I think some countries count it's anniversary, isn't it? Getting a what? A birthday anniversary. That's their second anniversary, isn't it? Of the second anniversary of their birth. Yeah. So, I mean, how would you do it then? What would be right? Well, no, I've got an alternative. I just think it's wrong and confusing. It wasn't confusing until you came on the radio. Everyone else. I've been quite happily muddling along with this system for 50 years, mate, and now here you are making me all confused. I'm 48. Yeah, but are you? But this is my 49th 6 October. Yeah. In Korea, you're won on your. On the day that you're born. Would that suit you back? Because if you don't like it, why don't you move to Korea? Well, I'm six foot four. I've got no chance of being korean. You don't have to. I mean, no, you'd stand out a bit. But I. I don't know what the answer to your question is. I don't really know. Well, I know you do. Waiting 48 or 49 years to find out. I don't really understand what the question is. What? Why do we? Why we do. Why don't we do it like the Koreans? Why don't we do it like the Koreans do it? I guess if it works better for them, if I'd be happier, why are we naught for a year instead of being one when we're born? Yeah. All right, let's see what I can do. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Certainly you've got the old cogswearing there, but I don't know that we're going to get an answer to that. Maybe we will. I mean, it is. When you think about it, it is actually quite confusing. Best not to think about it. Ryan's in Liverpool. Ryan. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Hopefully it's not as complicated as. Weird one, wasn't it? Wasn't it? So my question is, why are the vast majority of semi detached houses built living room to living room and not front door to front door? Oh. So, me and my partner were looking for a house last year and a friend of mine lives in a house that is adjoined from door to front door and he previously lived in a living room to living room. And he said, well, he chose that option because of less noises, noisy neighbors. Oh, I got it. Sorry. So you mean the two front doors are next to each other? Yes. Yes. And that's what we were looking for. Well, that's normal. I mean, that's normal. It's. It's really. It's not. Oh, well, I'm thinking about London townhouses. The ones that Liz truss hates. All of the London terraces have got the front doors next to each other, but they're both. If it's a terrace, it's. If it's a terrace. They're both, aren't they? Because like. Because you've got one neighbor next to your front door and the other neighbor next to your sitting room. Terrorists are but semi detached and not. Okay. No, I take that back. I take that back. I take that back. And. Yeah, we tried, we come across a couple and as I said, my friend lives in one, but the vast majority, well, and especially all the new builds are living room to living room. But I don't. I think that the noise. It's because of the staircases, isn't it? No, because my. We can hear if our neighbors have loud tv, which is not often. We can hear the tv if they have an argument. Hope they're not listening if they have an argument. They. We can. But we can't hear, like going up and down the house. No, we can't hear anything else throughout the rest of the house. Well, you wouldn't be able to hear them going up and down stairs because you're living room to living room. If you were next to the staircase. But then your staircase would. Yeah, but we wouldn't be watching. We wouldn't be relaxing on the staircase of an evening, would we? That's a fair point that you make. Um, I mean, I've got a theory myself. Go on then. No, I'd like to hear your theory, actually. I'm wondering if it's anything to do with cost, like, for instance, like electrical wiring or. I don't. Bringing it in and then splitting the. Yeah, but then I think I'm just drawing a picture of a semi detached house here. So you've got like, this is literally what I've done a couple of weeks ago. Front doors are either extremity, then you've got a big line down the middle and you come up those three, you go up there and obviously you're going to have your two tellies almost doing battle with each other, aren't you? If you're not careful. This is exactly it. And I know our neighbors have their tv on the same side as ours, but. Yeah. So they're back to back, it does seem. Okay, I'll file up. I mean, there it is. Why. Why are the vast majority of semi da. Semis crucially. Semi detached houses. Yes. Crucially, yeah. Built living room to living room. Yep. And you didn't find one. Did you say you didn't find. No, no, we found. We found a couple, but it was super rare. Oh, well, you live in. Look. Chimneys. Chimneys. Chimneys. Chicken. No. Could, could it be chimney? Chimneys? You share a chimney? You got a fireplace. We, we, we do have a fireplace, but my friend has a fireplace. But they've gutted it out. But they live front door to front door. Yeah, but they're rare. They're rare, but. So the answer to why the vast majority are not like that would be chimneys, I reckon. Reckon. Do you reckon it's a better theory than. What was your theory? I'm literally looking out my window now. Semi detached houses. It's gotta be chimneys. I'll wait for. I'll get. I'll get an official answer. I'll get a builder. Okay. All right. Okay, guys, gotta be. Gotta be chimneys. Halls are joining. The state agents call it. Steve tells me halls are joining. And that's a plus sign. I think that's what you would prefer, isn't it? Halls are joining front door to front door. Right. Well, let's find out. I bet it's chimneys, though. You could be right. I'd be amazed if it's not chimneys, mate. Gotta be the chimneys. It's gotta be the chimneys. Should put them on Liz Truss's list. Houses that are front door to front door, down with that. So thank you, Ryan. 1246 is the time, mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1249 is the time, mystery hour. Why Sammy's built, usually built, living room to living room. We did the celestial bodies on a Friday, didn't we? The bubble and squeak. We did. Why are soapbox races called soapbox racing? What was the birthday question? Why'd you get your age wrong? Yeah. Ian's very complicated question about why aren't you one? Why aren't you one? On the day that you're born, why do you spend a whole year being zero, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Yorma is in Bristol. Your question or answer. Hello, James. Hello. Pleasure to speak to you. Likewise. Right, right. Little bit of this then. So I'll set the scene. I am sitting by the river in Bristol, which I do every day on my breaks last month. Yeah, yeah, it's beautiful. Lovely day. The sun's out. You there. Now, are you actually. Meaning you are actually setting the scene now? I am watching it as we speak, yes. Literally now. Is it be the Avon, would it? In Bristol? It will be very nice. Yeah. The tide is. Tide's been out, but it's definitely pushing it. Okay, I just saw a heron and your producer told me that the heron was irrelevant, but I need to set the scene. No, I want to full picture. The heron ducked under and it disappeared. For about nearly a minute and then popped up about 20 meters or 30 meters in the direction that the tide is coming in. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's, you know, the tide's pushing. You can see it pushing, it moving. Yeah. And I see it every day. I've watched it, you know, but what I'm trying to every day see, but the leaves and the twigs that are on the top of the water in the middle are going the opposite out back out to sea, if you see what I mean. Although the water is pushing in and I'm not joking you, James, I. Every day I. What is this? But not only that, it happens the other way around. So when the tide's going out, sometimes the leaves going the other way. Well, that would be the wind. That would be the wind. I knew you were going to say that. The wind is going. Blowing in my hair. The same direction as the water is moving. The tide is going in. I know, I knew you say that and I'm not joking. No, I know you're not. Be a bit weird if you were. So the tide is coming in for the weeks now. The tide. The tide is definitely wildlife and it's. It's happening. Hello? It's a real thing, I know, believe you. Can you hear me? Yeah, I'm just wondering, can you hear me? Any listeners might have some sort of answer or you, James, can have a crack at it. Can you hear me? Oh, hello. Sorry. Are you alright? What happened? Oh, sorry. Oh, sorry. Did you duck off? No, you just. You just started ignoring me. Oh, sorry, I didn't hear you. Sorry, James. I mean, I was constantly interrupting and talking over you, as I often do, but you just want. So what, I'll shut up. And what did you say? You can't remember now, can I? It's late in the program. I get tired after 12:30. I've told you this before, all right, yeah, I do, I do know that. So just to clarify, the tide is coming in? Yep. But there is flotsam on the water that is going out. Going back out. Yeah. Even though the tides coming, pushing in and I know because the heron went, people keep telling me it wouldn't be a. How big was it? What? The bird. The bird. It's massive, mate. I know what heron looks. Yeah, I thought everyone's going on. It wouldn't be a heron, it'd be a grebe. Someone says that's a cormorant. How do they know that it's aight? Maybe it was a different bird. It was a big bird. I think it was a grebe or a cormorant, because the heron doesn't go. The heron has got a whopping great dagger for a beak and it just stabs stuff. All right, okay, so maybe the heroin. It was a big bird. But this isn't the point, is it? I mean, I don't know why these people have been so pedantic. Yeah. Whoever that is, ignore them. There's loads of them, Kyle. Well, you know, they can back off. And two kyles must be the same car with two accounts. It can't be two kyles both going, it must be a cormorant. Well, the water's pushing that way. No, I understand. So the tide is coming in. Yeah, but the flotsam is going out. It's going out. Why is that? Yeah, let's find out. And it's not the wind. James, point that out. No, it's not the wind. I have pointed that out. It's not the wind. It's the flotsam. I think I'm using that word correctly. It possibly is jetsam, but mostly flotsam. Thank you, Jorma. Enjoy the rest of your break. Can we get him an answer? Scott's in Sheffield. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Scott. It's the birthday question. Oh, yes. And. Sorry, I'm a little bit. Because. Yeah, you're one of my favorite radio presenters in the world. Oh, thank you. So it's going to be a massive anticlimax, this, you know, I should warn you. And the worst thing is. The worst thing is, the qualification is I'm a dad. And it comes from a dad's joke. So, effectively. Go on, then. How many birthdays does the average human have? It's not really a joke, it's more of a deadline. Yeah. It's one. You're born and that's it. Everything's a celebration afterwards. So when the chap was saying, why is this when you're out, when you're one year old, you're having your second Easter. Well, you're also about to have your second anniversary of your birth, but you've already had the first one, so effectively, you're between zero and one. Yeah, you've already had one birthday and then you have your first birthday and you've done everything in between there once. So you. So your first birthday is your first anniversary. Your. Well, no, your first birthday is the day you're born. No, that's your birthday. Birthday. Your first celebrated. Yeah. Your number. Yeah. It's your first. It's the first anniversary of your birth. You're one. Yeah. But you've also then got the next. After that, you've got the second. Your first anniversary of your first Easter. So you've. Yeah, you've basically gone. You're going around again, but, you know, it is your second time and it's just a bit of a logical fallacy. The chap was a little bit confused, I think. Yeah, but. And also in Korea, they do your one on the day that you're born. That's what Keith is telling me. I haven't actually checked. There's a good chance you could make it into cabinet, though. I think you've done it. Qualifications. Dad joke. Dad Riddle. Dad. Yeah, I'm a. I'm a dad. I tell dad riddles and love jokes. I like it. Do you remember my favorite dad joke? How old. How old are your kids? Six and one. Six year old are like this. What's the. I can't remember whether I've done this before on the radio. It's quite a good one. You ready? Yeah. What's this? Interesting. It's a pair of pants. Brilliant. The six year old. You need a round of applause. The six year old's gonna like that one. Right, round applause for Scott. Round of applause for Scott. Thank you, mate. 1256. I think my friend Nick Revell, who is a professional comedian, as you know, I think he told my mind that Joe many, many moons ago, Max is in Braintree. Question or answer, Max. It is an answer. James. Carry on. It's the days of the week one. My radio cut out, so I'm not quite sure how far you got with it. I thought I'd nailed it, actually, to be honest with you, but, you know. Well, I didn't hear the end of your answers. I'm hoping I can add to it. Carry on. I bet you can. I bet you can. It's your one year old, aren't you? On your first birthday? That's the way to think about it. I'm one year. Anyway. Carry on. Carry on. Sorry. So we need to not think of celestial bodies so much as gods. Yeah. When we're looking at the French, we're looking at the old Romano gods. So we're looking at Mars, we're looking at Mercury, Jupiter, Venus. Not necessarily the planets. Venus. Yep. Venus, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn. And in England, we're looking at the Germanic. Norse, and they're equivalent. So Q's is the God of war equivalent of Mars. Woden. Woden's day. Odin. Is Mercury, Jordi, Jupiter. We have Thor's day. And in German it's Thunder day. And Vonderdi, Venus is Freya's day, which is Thor's mother. Oh, you're gonna get a round of applause. I don't quite know why they put you through. Because I did all this already. What? You said Friday. Yeah. Oh, did. Oh, I didn't hear that bit. Oh, yeah, I did. Yeah. Oh, of course. My parents are fortune. This education, you know, Max wasted both our time. Yeah, well, no, not at all. I've enjoyed talking to you. And also you sound. You sound quite authoritative. And I think you used some language I wasn't familiar with. Okay, so I'm gonna give you a round of applause, maybe. Okay. Thank you, James. Oh, you're welcome. Don't you sound disappointed. Now, should I not have said it would have been better if I'd let you go away thinking that you brought new information to the program when you hadn't, wouldn't it? That would be worse. I didn't want to take an applause away from you. I know how much you need them. Well, I'm comfortable with my levels of applause. I put one back in the box earlier. I'm so chill about it these days. Lester. I'm happy to have it. Thank you, Max. Well played. Cool. Good. Squeeze in one more. Colin Kings, Langley. Question, answer, answer. Yes. Why? Cables are hallway to hallway quite often. Sorry? Houses. That's the older houses. When they first started making cables to run into people's houses, it was paper, wax insulated, very expensive cable. And to save the cost of running one into each house, they would run into one and then go back entry through the wall to the other house to put a meter on each side. Nothing to do with chimneys. Nothing to do with chimneys whatsoever. Well, you live and learn. Hang on. David's in Malton. David, you're an architect. He's a builder. Do you agree? Well, there's loads of reasons. James. Hi. How are you doing? I'm alright. I'm short of time. Sheila's here, so make it snappy. Yeah, well, I work for loads of developers and the big one with developers is snobbery. Nobody wants to walk, nobody wants to go into a house next door to the neighbor, so they keep it apart so it doesn't look like a terrace. And that's from a big developer's mouth. That'll do, Colin. I think you're both right, aren't you? Yeah. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Nice one. Right, round of applause for the lads. Take care and you take care. Thank you, Colin. Thank you, David. Thank you, Sheila. Oh, hang on. I need a winner. Did you hear much of it? No, I didn't, actually. And the gentleman before who was a bit sad at having repeated things, he taught me something I didn't know. I'm going to give him the round of he can have the game, he can have the mystery out board game, then I'm giving it to Max. I think we made him a bit sad. He did sound bouncy. He sounded downcast, didn't he? Well, hopefully a Mr. Apple game will cheer him up. You've cheered him up now. There you go. Thank you. Full circle. Lovely. Thank you, Jake.