What is bitcoin?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. 1204 is the time. Mystery Hour is upon us. And I think more than at any point that I can remember in a very, very long time, I really need it this week. I mean, God, I'm exhausted from plugging my book so furiously. I'm only joking. I do find those conversations really, really difficult. And thank you once again for letting us have them. And like you, awful lot of you, actually getting in touch to say that the final contribution there from Dan was close to perfect. Couldn't agree more. Five minutes after that. Twelve is a time now. Mystery hour. A lot of fun. You're new to this, trust me, it's rather different from the other 14 hours of the week that we spend together. Or 16, of course, if you're signing up for my paperback launch later this evening on Zoom. But it is funny, it is diverting, it's informative, it's illuminating and it is even occasionally borderline educational. You have a question, a mystery, a conundrum bubbling away in the back of your mind, and someone else listening to the program will have the answer. And that's it, really. Did I say Dan in by now? I meant mark. My apologies. So I think, should we crack straight on and see what happens? Rather than do the rubric and the rules and the terms and conditions, the TNC's could all end horribly. Could I end up breaking all the rules? All right, I will remind you, brackets, really, my colleagues, close brackets, that I don't like questions about motoring much. Okay, that's not good. And if it's a question that only you are going to be interested in the answer to, it's unlikely that it's going to wash. But not impossible, because occasionally you might say something and suddenly everyone else goes, oh, but it's a tough. And the management's decision is final. And for the avoidance of doubt, brackets, once again, talking to my colleagues while pretending to talk to the listeners, close brackets. I am the management. All right. Yeah. Alice is in Northwich. Alice, question or answer? Oh, question. Thank you, James. Carry on, Alice. And I just wonder. Bitcoins are back in the news again. And I just wonder, precisely how are they made? Oh, Lord above. Bitcoin. Yeah, you know me, Alice. There are very, very few mountains that won't have a crack at climbing, but bitcoin is one of those areas that I've thus far managed to sort of stay very much at sea level. How are bitcoins made? Yeah. Do you even know and for the record, I don't whether that question makes sense. Well, I mean, it's got to make sense because they exist. But do they exist? They all sound like a license to print money to me. Yes. Let's be careful. You can no longer buy a Tesla with your bitcoin. I don't know how much you've got salted away behind the sofa for Elon Musk. Elon Musk announced yesterday that you can no longer. And the reason he gave was. And I'm not answering your question. I'm just showing off my knowledge, as always. Well, I'm not even really computer literate, let's face it, these days. Well, then we're going to. We're going to have to make sure that somebody provides you with an answer to the question of how is bitcoin made? That is comprehensible to the computer illiterate, if that's at all possible. The mountain just got 3 miles higher, Alice. Thank you very much indeed. How is bitcoin made? Zero. 345-606-0973 there's a little one to kick things off. Up next, Deborah is in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question. Hello, James. Hello, Deborah. Right. During the second world war, at the start of the bombing blitz, did London zoo have any plans in place? If bombed to where? Where would the animals go? Especially the dangerous ones. What sort of plan would they have had in place? Are we a hundred percent certain that the. The zoo was open in 1940? I'm just. Just double checking. Yeah, I think it was. No, I think it probably was as well. And are we 100% certain that it wasn't evacuated? I don't know where you'd evacuate people. I've never heard anything about it. I don't know why I'm asking you. I'm asking you to answer your own question. That's not how mystery hour works, is it? Yeah. I do apologize. Have you got any bitcoin over in Swanscomb? No. I don't even know what bitcoin is. When you will. By 01:00 today. There is mystery. Promise. What happened to London Zoo during the second World War? That's a lovely question. I can't believe we've not answered it before. And how do you make a bitcoin? And I don't think it's something you should or could try at home. That's about the extent of my knowledge. Except the bit I was showing off about before. Deborah, so rudely interrupt. Not Deborah. Alice, so rudely interrupted me. He said that you can't buy a Tesla with bitcoin because the environmental impact of mining bitcoins, which I don't think means digging them out of the ground, which adds to Alice's confusion, is too high. It's using epic computer processing power that is largely based in China, where the electricity will be provided by coal fired or fossil fuel fired power stations. And here endeth the full extent of my knowledge on this issue, so we can confidently state I won't be getting a round of applause. Oh, hang on, let me add something to do with coding. Chris is in Barnsley. Chrissy, question or answer? Hello. A question. Carry on. My eight year old daughter, Amelia, wants to know what color is a bee's skin. Obviously, it's fur, is black and yellow, but what color is its actual skin? Great question. Is she extremely clever? Amelia? She's just extremely curious. This is typical Barnsley modesty. She's clearly a child prodigy. She's going to be the next David Attenborough without a shadow of a doubt. I mean, how. Ooh, dear. I was about to say. I mean, you couldn't. You wouldn't want to try to find out for herself. That would open up a whole heap of different problems for the. Yes. Yeah, okay, so it. Is it definitely fur? I mean, it feels like fur. It looks like fur. If you took off the fur, what would be if you shaved a bee? Basically, your eight year old daughter wants to know what would happen if you shaved a bee. That's it. I'm supposed to be the Alan Partridge tribute act, not Amelia. We will find out for you, Chrissy. Well, more pertinently, we will find out for Amelia what is underneath a bee's black and yellow stripes. Or if, like me, you find yourself never indulging in accidental partridges because they always deliberate what would happen if you shaved a bee? Matt's in Bristol. Matt, question or answer? Hi there, James. I've got a question for you. Yeah, man. So, we live opposite a graveyard here in Bristol, and we want to know, why do crows hang around graveyards? What's the association with it? Is it just graveyards? Do they not hang around all parks, all open spaces? Well, it's specifically crows, and we live in quite a big graveyard and there are lots of crows gathered there. Let me just. I'm just going to do a straw poll in the studio, if that's all right with you. Do we recognize this association between crows and graveyards? Or are you just more likely to notice a crow when you're in a graveyard because of Edgar Allan Poe? And stuff like that. Keith, what do you think? Well, that's raven. Yeah. Ava. Crows and graveyards. Do we recognize the link? Well, of course you're going to say yes, because you put him through. Yeah, well, exactly that. I don't know. I don't know. I mean. All right, well, that's the question, then. Are crows. Is there a disproportionate representation of crows in graveyards? Sounds good to me. I like it. Do you know what I think the answer is? Or do you want to know what I think the answer is? Is probably the more important question. Yeah, you can have a crust. Well, I nearly said food. That would be gross. I mean, small animals, the crows catch live prey. I don't know that they do. Anyway, that's why I'm not getting a round of applause. Crows and graveyards. Shaved bees. It's all got a bit biological, hasn't it? A little bit wildlife. Shaved bees. Crows and graveyards. London zoo during the war. And bitcoin. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And I guess if you can answer any of those, then straight to the front of the queue. Lucy's in Greenwich. Lucy. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on. I've been puzzling about this whole idea that we have to hang meat before we start only game. Thinking about cooking it. Game, only game? Yeah. Really? I don't think you ever have to have to hang me. You just do, because it changes the flavor. It changes the flavor? I think so. I see. But you don't have to, because I've been seeing these adverts advertising beef that's been hung for 21 days. That's very well hungry. Yeah, it is, isn't it? What's that? What's the, you know, sort of thing about wanting to eat something that's rotting away? I mean, with. With game. I mean, this. One of the great marks of posh people is that they'll eat stuff that the rest of us would run away from at 100 miles an hour. And, you know, there was a story not long ago about someone's mum scraping the maggots off a pheasant before sticking it in the oven. So, no, I'm not. And Nick Ferrari sometimes uses it as an adjective. I don't know if you've heard him say, well, that's a bit gamey. And it's that smell that just on the turf. And, I don't know, someone will tell us whether or not that improves the flavor. But I think that's the answer. But I will find out why. So why do we hang meat? We don't. And then as a secondary, if it slips into the conversation, do you ever have to? I'm not sure you ever have to. I would really like to know why. Tell me what you've shot, Lucy. I haven't shot anything. Yeah, that's what. That's what a person who's just shot something would be bound to say. What have you got? What have you got in the fridge over in Greenwich? A freshly slaughtered what? I don't know. What's the most popular wildlife in Greenwich? You're not supposed to eat swans. What sort of a monster? Right. Lucy's got a swan in her fridge. This is disgusting. Baby. There's a pheasant going around town, though. That's the Queen's swan you've got there, woman. You've stolen. You've shot one of the queen's swans. I don't know, a peckham pheasant. There's got to be a Derek Trotter joke there somewhere. But I'm not the man. I'm not the man to provide it at this point. Why do we hang meat? There we go. Thank you. I like that question a lot, actually. But I'm fairly confident you don't have to. I'm fairly confident you can eat something that you've just shot, even though received wisdom is that it improves somehow with hanging. And there, I hope a few of you suggesting, even before we spoke to Lucy, when we happened upon the possibility of shaving a bee, is that I used to issue a guarantee at 12:00 on Thursdays that you'd have at least one laugh out loud by 01:00 and I'd like to think that this week we've already kept that promise, even though we never made it. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 18 minutes after twelve and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where questions in need of answers. What happens if you shave a bee? That's not what she. It's incredible that Chrissy rang in with a question from her eight year old daughter and I, aged 49, managed to make it less mature. I actually managed to. Well played, Keith. He's called it a buzz cut. You probably already heard that because he bellowed it in my ear so loud it almost certainly went through the microphone. That's what happens when you're dead. I get, like, I can criticize someone for being pleased with themselves but the idea that an eight year old rings in with a question and I somehow manage to infantilize it is embarrassing on every imaginable level, but it's still a great question. What's underneath a bee's fur? Or if you prefer, what happens if you shave a bee? What happened to all the animals in London Zoo during the Second World War? How do you make a bitcoin zero? 345-606-0973 why do we hang meat? Everything's a bit animal related today, apart from the bitcoin. If it turns out that they're laid by bitcoin chickens, then we've got a full house of animal related questions. And why are crows so regularly seen in graveyards? Brackets. If they really are close brackets, Andy's in Brighton. Andy, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. It's. It's, uh. Can particles leave our stratosphere? Pardon? So, like, like, can, like, microbes, like, you know, up in the air. Yeah. Like in, in the sky, you've got, like, little microbes and, like, on the space station, there's little microbes growing outside it. Yeah. Can particles leave our stratosphere? Where, where, where's our stratosphere? What's our strategy? Yeah, yeah. Pass the ozone type thing. So most cankers, because humans have. So in a spaceship, the answer is yes. So would that mean that planet is leaving a trail of particles behind? So then you could. I mean, it's a while since I've had conversations like this, and they were usually rather later at night, Andy. Yeah, I know, I know, I know. Oh, just one thing, James. Yeah. I rank. I rang in around Christmas, and when your mate with the skate park, the skate ramp ranging with the 414 thing, did he get it? We got everything we needed, but I don't know if it was. I'm incredibly grateful for your help, but I don't know. That was very helpful, but that wasn't the path we ended up going down. Okay, that's cool. You're a star. Everyone who helped out with that was brilliant. But bizarrely, James McVeigh, who's the guitarist with the vamp, stepped in, called in a few favors and picked up the bill for the lad. So. Yeah, exactly that. Exactly that. So, I mean, can particles leave our strathclyde. Stratosphere? Yeah. Not in a spaceship. Not in a spaceship. Just like, can they just, like, flow off into space out of the stratosphere? Okay. Does that make sense? Sort of. It makes sense to you and me. Whether it actually makes sense to a particle physicist, in many ways, is the point of the question. Okay. Okay. You're a legend. Yeah. Thanks, mate. Lovely. Take easy. Have a great day. And you, 21. Off to twelve. Darren's in Preston. Darren, question or answer? I have an answer for you. Carry on. Okay. The animals during World War Two. Yes. Yeah. Well, most of the animals got transferred to other zoos. Most of them went to whipsnade Zoo. Some of the more endangered ones got transferred to other zoos. Like, I think the Komodo dragon ended up at Blackpool. But all the venomous animals, all those that they thought might cause a danger to the public, uh, they were killed. No, seriously? Yeah. Should have put a trigger warning in there. Come on down. Sorry, there's children. Sorry. Actually, they should be at school, but. Well, yes, exactly. So what about the lions? Do we know where the lions went? Did you say. Sorry? Uh, whipsnade lions went to whips. Yeah. So most of the animals went to dragon went to Blackpool. Yeah. I don't know about all the others. I just. I just remember the Komodo dragon went to Blackpool because my granddad was a zookeeper at Blackpool Zoo during the war. Oh, magnificent. Was that in the tower? Was that in the bottom of the tower? Or was it separate from. No, no, I don't know. That was the tower circus. It was. It. I'm. No, I'm thinking of the circus. I'm thinking of the circus, not the zoo. Were they linked? Did they use animals from the zoo in the circus? Why am I asking you all this? You're not a Blackpool historian. I'm not, and I wouldn't be able to even answer that one for you. But I just remember it was one of them stories as a kid, me, my granddad used to tell me. And when the question came up, oh, wow. As if that piece of information that's been floating around is actually useful to somebody. That's incredible, isn't it? There you go. That's mystery hour in a nutshell, Darren. That is mystery nutshell. How old are you? I'm 48 now, for the same age as me, give or take 48 years, carrying around this little piece of knowledge. And only today has it come in vaguely useful. Exactly. And it's stirred some memories of granddad. So it's a good day. It's a cracking job as well, I imagine, being a zookeeper at Blackpool Zoo. But we shall. That's good enough for me. Yeah. No, I appreciate that. Round of applause for Darren. Is he good? No, thank you. Close to a Rayleigh offer, but not I don't think quite over the line, but he was happy enough with that. Maybe a room for a bit of embellishment on it, but there is no. You know, that's a lovely answer. Did the zoo stay open? Seems unlikely. Did anyone say that during the first days of the lockdown? Oh, they kept London Zoo open during the blitz. 24 minutes after twelve is the time Stuart's in Edinburgh. Stuart, question or answer? There's a question, mate. Carry on. Is there a rule anywhere that says that football referees have to have short hair? No. Male refs? No. I've never seen a ref with flowing locks like a David janola of referees. Yeah, yeah, but there's a reason for that. I bet. I bet you've never seen a geography teacher with long. It's a bad example. I bet you've never seen a PE teacher with long hair either, have you? My pe teacher had long hair. Oh, shut up. He did put in a ponytail. Are you serious? How old are you? I'm 45. Yeah. You had a PE teacher with a ponytail in the 1980s. 1980s? Yeah. That just fell apart a bit under pressure, didn't it? He's probably out, he's on one every weekend. Have you ever seen a ref with the long hair, though? It's not a music hall song. I've never seen a referee. No. Well, I mean, no, I haven't, but I imagine it's to do more with personality than. I mean, if you want to be a referee, you're unlikely to have, you know, hippie ish or raver type or rocker type type tendencies on you. Hmm. Anyway, it's an easy enough question to answer. We just need a qualified referee to rig it to say, are there any requirements regarding hair length? Why do you ask? Why do you ask? It's a lovely question. I was watching the Bundesliga the other, the other week and the guy looked dead officious and, you know, I don't know, I just. I've never seen a referee. I've never seen a referee with. Yeah, all right, I'll try and find out for you, but I think all we need because there's quite a lot you have to do, exams and stuff, so if you've qualified as a referee, you probably. No, great question, Stuart. My favorite. I think so. No, no, no, hang on a minute. We're going to be shaving a bee later. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. David's in Birmingham. David, question or answer? Carry on. It's quite a boring one. It's the one about the pheasants. Hanging it. Why do we hang meat? Not just pheasants, not just game, but also beef? Because now you. You know, butchers rarely shut up about how well hung their beef is. Oh, God. Yeah, I know. A spike. It's for the same reasons. In the supermarkets, you can buy a Phillips steak or you can buy 115 days or 30 days matured. The only difference is, because it's sealed in vac, oxygen, can't get at it, so you won't get the greenish tinge to it you associate with pheasants. But what happens is when an animal first gets put down, its ph is slightly above seven. The minute you hang it and it relaxes, the lactic acid kicks in effect. Yes. And it turns acidic. The longer you hang it, the more acidic it goes inside, breaking down the material, all the joins between the meat and giving that ease of eating and the juicy flavor. So the longer you hang it, essentially the better. With a tipping point, obviously. Yes. I mean, I've seen them used to collect them from our butcher shop when I was young. I mean, they were clean. I wouldn't eat that. But that said, see any? Apart from pork, I wouldn't do it. Pork. No. That's a different kettle of fish altogether, isn't it? With. With bacteria and things like that? Yeah. Because pigs eat anything and everything. So, you know. So it is that simple. I mean, if I'd had to guess, I probably would have gone for that. That idea that it's great. It's breaking down something and making the meat more, well, as you say, more pleasant to eat, but. So you don't need to do it. You wouldn't. You wouldn't do yourself any harm if you had some. But have you ever had, say, like, you go to friends and you try the ostrich or you try various novelty meats and you go, it's nice, but it's tough. Yes. And that's because I've just done it. Put out novelty factor. People buy it, it comes to fill it. And that's slightly different. I mean, see, if you take a rump and it's got green from hanging, what we'll quite often do is see, if you cut the outside off. You couldn't tell. You can still. And you could eat the green. You could eat the green bit. Yeah. It won't do you any harm. It's done. Chromosolic and pathogenic bacteria, essentially. Well, there we go. David, I think. I think you've already hinted at this. Your answer to the next question, but what are your qualifications? It started off life as a butcher. Glasgow. Straight and slaughterhouse sitting girls. One, two, two and part one, two, one and one, two and butchering. You could have just said, I used to be a butcher. I don't need to see your certificates. Like. You could have just said that you used to be a butcher. But that's a lovely answer. That's a. Do you not do it anymore? Do you not do it anymore? Oh, God, no. I joined the army to get a bit easier life. There's a phone in waiting to happen. Give him a round of applause. Lovely stuff. Thank you, David. So that's why you hang me as hopefully. Are referees allowed to have long hair? Can particles leave the stratosphere? Why are crows and graveyards. What is underneath the black and yellow stripes on a bee? And how do you make a bitcoin? Um, it's coming up to 20. Mine, I think I can squeeze in. It's coming up to half twelve. I can squeeze in. Samuel Felton. Question or answer, Sam. Oh, hello. Hello. I was multitasking then. I'm working. Question. Yes, I was watching the snooker the other. The other week. Oh, yeah. And I was wondering, can you actually get a complete tiebreak in a frame? No. Over the whole lot? No, because it's the first to 18. Yeah. So someone's going to get there first. Yes. But if you're both. If it's, say, the first to 18 and you're both on eight. Yeah. And that's 16. No, it's the first to 18, so it's 17 all, I think, to help you with your theory. Is it 17? Okay, so if you're on 17 all. Yeah. And when you're actually in the frame itself. Yeah. Is there a way that it can be a tie break? No, because if it's 17 all and then you end equal after the final black is cleared, then they just respot the black and put the white. So you do respot the black. Yeah. But you do that, you know, even if it's nil nil and you end up on equal points after the final black has been potted. All right, then. Yeah. That's put me flat. Well, no, sure. Ask me what my qualifications are. What are your qualifications? I love snooker, Sam. I love it, I love it, I love it, I love it. Could watch it all day. And before I had a wife and children, I often did those days along. Sam, you stay safe by. There you go. Round of applause for me, please. Thanks a lot, mate. You take care. Thank you. Thank you. 1231 is the time. Thomas Watts has the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 34 is the time and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions still in need of answers. I got myself a little round of applause there on the snooker question, although someone has added, with a rather lovely little caveat, you haven't signed it. This is. You can only foul the black once after the respotting and then just zipping up the old anorak. I like that. I might start doing that. Just zipping up the old. After saying something geeky, just do a sort of zip. Zipping up the old nr. What color is a bee when you get rid of the black and yellow stripes? How do you make a bitcoin, or indeed mine a bitcoin? Crows and graveyards. What's going on there? Hanging meat. We've done. Can particles leave the stratosphere? And are referees allowed to have long hair? Look, the questioner did say that he was talking about male referees, obviously. So thanks to all the geniuses, most obviously and predictably, Wayne and Basildon getting in touch to point out the existence of female officials in the world of football. But I am 99.9% certain that the original questioner specified males. If he didn't, I'm doing it now on his behalf. Chris is in Worcester. Chris, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Chris. It's actually about the referee question, actually. What a coincidence. Basically, there's nothing in the rules that say you can't have long hair while refereeing. You just have to look presentable. Interesting, because, I mean, some people would argue can't look presentable. A man can't look presentable with long hair. I'm not one of them, for the record, but Roger Milford. Roger Milford. Do you know the name Roger Milford? Yes, I do, from Bristol. Did he have long hair? Did he have long hair? He did. There you go. Actually, I think he had a perm at one point when he didn't send off Gaza in the 91 cup final. If he didn't have a perm, you just. You just libeled him. I love that. So you can have long hair, but you have to look presentable for, you know, respectability reasons and what have you. And there we have an example of a ref who many texters have told me did indeed have long hair qualifications. Chris, we've been here before, I think. Yes, we have. I was a qualified referee between 95 and 2012 on the West Mids regional League and also for the. The Worcestershire fA. What. How long was your hair at its longest point during that period of referee? Now, I've gone into referee in american football. I've actually done games in my head, down past my shoulders, but I've actually tied it back because really, caps rocks. Okay. So. But when you're doing association, you never really win. No, I normally have it the exactly the other way, actually. Basically just all shaved off, normally. I love it. I think that earns you a round of applause. Nicely done. That's three or four you've got now, all based on refereeing. Is that right? Yeah, I think that. And boarders and pubs as well, I think. A man after my own heart. Round of applause for Chris. 1237. This time, Kieran is in Leeds. Kieran, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I'd like to know what medical criteria needs to be met for an injury to classify as being serious. How do you mean? Well, for instance, you see in the media several injuries for serious injury. Oh, okay. Is there a model? Is there a criteria? What is the threshold for an injury to constitute being classed as serious in medical terms? Yeah, and that's definitely the terminology, because. I'm not quibbling, I'm just checking, because there are various phrases, aren't there, that appear in casualty reports. But serious is definitely one of them. I believe so cataclysmically wrong. Don't worry, you'll be in good company. I've written a book about it. Paperback's out today, actually. Join me for the launch later this evening. I stop it now. Honestly, it's just getting boring. So what if you read, 200 people are injured, 30 of them. Seriously? What does seriously mean? Perfect. Is there a threshold? That's the word I was looking for. Nice one. What the hell is wrong with you? Why are you wondering about this? I wish I knew. So your interest is. Your interest is semantic and verbal rather than morbid and violent? Purely, yes. I kill anyone who says otherwise. 1239 is the time. Asher is in New York city. Asher, question or answer? I have an answer. Carry on. So it's to the question of why are crows mainly in graveyard? How old are you, Asher? I am nearly 14. Nearly four. Welcome aboard. I love the idea that we've gone transatlantic and transgenerational with this simple conversation. What is the answer to the crow graveyard question? So they're about two and a half answers. The first one is that they like ledges and the graves are often used as that. There are high trees to, I guess, hiding. And while humans might keep out larger animals and humans, because humans don't go to that very often. No one's gonna stop crows. That's the first one. Number two is that crows are on the same genetic family line as ravens and even vultures, kind of distantly, and they are drawn to the smell of meat, as gross as that sounds. Yeah. And secondly is the reason I know this, which is where this is from, is smaller animals like to burrow there because it's same reason. Quiet and not that many humans around and not that many big predators. And while there are graves, there's a lot of, like, burrowing space. Yes. So animals like hamsters and sometimes even rabbits like to be there. Right. And that's why crows can be there. It's kind of easy food. That's a beautiful answer. Well, what are your qualifications? It's gonna sound silly, but I found this out looking up after I buried my hamster. Sounds silly at all. It's one of my all time favorite. What was your hamster called? Phineas. Phineas the hamster. That's a great name for a hamster. It was a big traveler. Was he named for his love of travel? You could say so, yeah. Okay. And how long have you been. A few times. He did escape a few times. Did he get around the world in 80 days? I'd leave. It did. How long have you been listening to mystery out? Uh, as really long as I can remember it, because my mother has had it on for most mornings, so. That's lovely. Thank you, mate. Give my regards to your mother and accept this round of applause with my compliments. There she is. There's mom in the background. Tiger mother, helicopter parenting. Thank you, guys. That was a lovely one as well. That's a really, really lovely answer with a great qualification. Chris is in. Greg, Chris, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Chris. Yes. To do the bitcoin. Here we go. Hang on, I'm just zipping up my anorak. Carry on. Yeah. So, essentially, the bitcoin is a decentralized computer system, meaning it's not stored in one computer, but on everyone's computer. Right. You don't actually make bitcoins. You mine them and you mine them because there are only 21 million bitcoins out there. Right. And the process behind mining is using a hash function, which is computer algorithms. You've lost the room already. This is the problem because you're clearly very clever. This isn't a criticism at all. It's a compliment, actually. No, don't apologize. If I can mine it, it has to exist. So how is it made? 21 million. Yes. You've got 21 million out there. And the idea behind mining is trying to find out, essentially, it's a one way, it's a function or a computer algorithm that works out what the next bitcoin will be. So by mining, you're essentially finding a proof of work. What strings or what letters gives me the next bitcoin, essentially. So, you know, we all know one plus one equals two. So essentially what you try to work out what plus one equals two. But the problem is you've got big bitcoin miners all around the world who have fast computers, which means, you know, whoever works out what the next bitcoin is gets a portion of whatever that bitcoin is. So essentially, you have a function that's running over and over again, trying to work out what the next block in the blockchain is. And it's similar technology used to encrypt your password. So if you logged on to your gmail or whatever it is, you have Google use an encryption to store your password so nobody can retrieve it. And it's similar to bitcoin. They try and encrypt or find what the encryption would be to lead to. It's called a SHA 256, which is essentially the. I'm losing the answer. I've left the studio, made a cup of tea and come back. I'm losing the answer. I'm going to give you a round of applause for being a top lad and for clearly knowing your stuff, but I think we need somebody. I mean, it's a little bit like I need a kindergarten bitcoin explanation. And you've given me a lower six. I'll try breaking that. You've basically got bitcoin stored on everyone's computer. So it's a ledger system that's on everyone's computer. Are you with me so far? No. So there's a very strong chance this is my fault rather than yours, though. No, no, I. Probably overcomplicating it because we got. I got a crack on it. We might have to leave it hanging. I'm going to give you a round of applause because some people aren't listening. Would have understood, between you and me. Chris? Yes? Do you think Alice in Northridge now knows what a bitcoin is? I don't know. I tell you what, if she does, I'll give you the money myself. Thank you. Coming up to quarter to one. Squeezing another one, shall we? Lynn is in Upminster. Lynn. Question or answer? Oh, hello. I've got an answer. Carry on Lynn, it's the life at the serious incident one. Good Lord. I wasn't expecting it that way. You came on the line sounding so chirpy and cheerful. I didn't know you were going to go down the serious injury line, but here we are. Go on, what is. I've only got into my listen so much. Fantastic. What is the criteria or threshold for seeing an injury described as serious? It's basically a life threatening injury or life changing. So it could be life changing. I think someone's broke their leg, but it's not going to heal very well, so they're going to have life changing injuries. Basically, the difference between serious and non serious. Yeah, love it. Qualifications? I work in a police control room. Perfect qualifications. Carry on. What did you do during lockdown? Worked all the way through. But did you work from home or anything like that? No. I mean, a lot of people did work from home in quite unlikely circumstances. I just thought a police control room from you, from your spare bedroom would have been quite an experience, wouldn't it? And probably. No, no, we're still there 365 days a year. Well, that's really. Yeah, we'll always be there. You're a star. Thanks for everything you do and thanks for that wonderful mystery. Our answer with perfect qualifications. It's 1246 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we've only got two questions that still need answers. I wonder if you can remember what they are. Well, no, bitcoin's still on the board. I think I'm going to speak for Alice in Northwich on this occasion and suggests that although Chris's answer was almost certainly correct, I suspect many of us listening, myself and Alison Northwich included, are no wiser than we were before. Stephen's been in touch to say he actually thought he understood what bitcoin was and how it was made. But having listened to the answer that Chris provided, he is now no longer sure. And Chris has very kindly got in touch on Twitter to suggest that he didn't really deserve his round of applause. Which I would remind you once again, the management's decision is final and I am the management, so that round of applause is yours and yours forever. But if someone else can ring in with a really, really, really easy to understand answer to the question of what is bitcoin? Or how do you make a bitcoin? If that is even the correct way of phrasing the question, then there is a strong chance that you will get on the radio. Tim's in Worcester. Tim, lots of Worcester calls today. How nice. Question or answer? I have an answer for the bee related question, which is a sort of variation on what happens if you shave a bee, but you are more than welcome to answer it from a more mature perspective. Oh, I don't know about more mature, but I'll give it a go. Come on. I believe it is simple, that it's actually the color of the skin that you're seeing rather than the fur, and that the fur is actually very light in its color, that it almost appears to be see through. So therefore you see the color of the bee's skin. Shut the front door. No. Are you serious? I believe that is correct. As far as I'm aware. I believe that to be true. Qualifications? My dad is an author of animal based stories and I have to look after all of his social media and websites, so he bores me with all of his trivia. Don't be so ungrateful. Don't be great for your cheeky wretch. I believe he's actually sent you a copy of his book so you can have a look at that. What's his name? Ralph Cross. I should look out for that. And if it's been in the last 18 months, then the post in the mail has been all over the place. It's recent. It's his most recent book. Okay, well, I will definitely look out for it. My apologies if I haven't replied. So we think the skin. So the. So the scissors, the little hairs, if that's the right word, are either very, very pale or almost translucent. And the black and yellow stripes are actually the pigmentation of the bees. It's probably not skin, is it? It's probably not quite the technic. It's the thorax or something. I don't know. But that black and yellow is. Is underneath. Yeah. As far as I'm aware. That is correct. I like your caveat. As far as I'm aware, it wobbles me slightly in the context of mystery. I like my qualifications to be definitive, but I mean, I'm shocked. I'll tell you, I'm shocked by this answer. And the plausibility scale has rocketed in result, even with my shock. And therefore you do get a round of applause. Fantastic. But it's really for Ralph. Well, yeah, I'll give him credit for it. Make sure you do. Make sure you do. 1252 is the time. Well, I never. Is that. Yeah. Gosh. Matthew's in Southampton. Matthew, question or answer. I've got an answer. Carry on. Do particles and whether they can leave the stratosphere. So the simple answer is, yes, they can. You're going to need a bit more than that, I think. Okay, so if you imagine, say, like a little container, and you put sand, oil and water inside, and then you shake it all up and then you just leave it, then they'll start separating out again. And the sand, the heaviest bit, will settle down to the bottom, and the oil, the lightest bit, will rise to the top. And that's similar to what happens in the top of the atmosphere. So the very lightest atoms, the helium and the atomic oxygen, will actually travel upwards out of the stratosphere, through the mesosphere and into the thermosphere. And from there, if they have enough energy, they can actually leave the atmosphere completely and travel off into deep space. You are brilliant. Thank you. Sometimes someone answers a question, and I don't want anyone else to come away from this feeling aggrieved or bruised or even seen, but sometimes someone asks. I always call it the Fred Dibner effect. Matthew, are you young? Old enough? I love Fred Dibner. Oh, my gosh. I'm going to give you the Fred Dibners on this occasion, because somehow it doesn't matter what the subject matter is, very occasionally you come across someone who's enthused. Enthusiasm and ability to communicate, not only that enthusiasm, but also the subject about which they are enthusiastic is completely infectious. And you just. You just did that. Absolutely. That's an amazing compliment. Thank you. I love the idea of people now. If they're trying to google Fred Dibna, they're not going to get anywhere, are they? With the way he spells, what are your quality? Don't ruin it now. I just made it up. What are your qualifications? I'm doing a PhD in climate change in space. And the upper atmosphere gets better and better. It's. I mean, what's the specific of your PhD? So I'm looking at the thermosphere, so above 100, how that impacts space debris. So it's not exactly the stratosphere. So personally, I wouldn't give myself a radium. Enough. You talk yourself out of it. But that makes me like you even more. That's fine. I'll wait for the perfect. Oh, listen, this is a purist coming through now. This is a proper player. This is a professional. I don't want your Ray Liotta until I absolutely deserve it. O'Brien, don't be patronizing me with a charity. Ray Liotta. That's what I'm hearing. I'm the Fred Dibna champion of mystery hour and I'll hang on and tell. All right, you're on. We might try. I might. In your honor. Institute of Fred Dibna. We'll have a look at it. The idea that. Yeah, that'd be a good idea, that people who do what you've just done get one. So it's a round of applause for now, Matthew, thank you. Good luck with the PhD. I have a feeling that you'll do okay based entirely on your contribution to mystery hour, which, on reflection, is possibly not the most ringing endorsement. Dario's in Kingston. Dario, question or answer? Hi, James. I'm going to answer. Well, it has to be. I think we've knocked everything else out of the park today. I'm not disagreeing with the previous caller, but I think. I hope you got. We've got to do something. We've got to do something about your phone line. I don't know what you've done since you came through, whether you've climbed the ladder or indeed a steeple jack, and you may have missed your chance, because I'm going to go to Jay, who's in Pimlico, while we try and fix Dario's fine line. Jay, question or answer? Jamie or answer? Hey, James, answer, please. Go on, then. So, yeah, the wonderful bitcoin related discussion. I thought I would come with a few analogies, I guess, to try and put it in layman's terms, if that's all right. So, for bitcoin, I think the way to look at it is mining is essentially lots of people in a room and you give them all a thousand piece puzzle and you scramble the puzzle on their desk. And this is what the previous caller was saying with regards to algorithms and doing, like, complicated. Why is it. Why is it worth anything, then? So you say what you say if you complete the puzzle first, who says, I'll give you a reward? Who says this? So I send you a transaction. James. I send you some bitcoin. Yeah? Yeah. Now, I need someone to let this transaction go through the network. Why? So that it's not stolen. I don't double spend it. So who does it originate from? Who are you? So the creator was someone that said, here is a way that we can have a network or a currency without need for any central control. So the first bitcoin block, so it hinged like money does, on promise to pay the bearer. It hinges on trust. Yes, it does. I'm getting closer, but I don't think we're going to get over the line. Why would I trust you? Good question. Sorry, I probably would trust you. Economic incentive. Basically you say if I give, the first person who solves this puzzle will receive a reward in bitcoin. And the way that, you know, I could put my hand up within 10 seconds to say I've solved it with my bitcoin. So then the network says, prove it and you have to show the puzzle. So essentially you have this system where I send a transaction and I know what it should look like on the other end, but I need to solve the puzzle to push, which is where the x plus one equals two. Thing came in with the earlier caller. Once the puzzle is solved, all the computers on the network can say, jamie from Tim Leco, this bit of bitcoin. And then the interesting thing as well is once it goes, then it's kind of given the rubber stamp. And once it's given the rubber stamp, but nobody knows the source for sure, do they? The person that not only issues the original invitation, but also presumably provides the rubber stamp. No, it's not. And the thing is, we're out of time. We're out of time. What qualifications? Crypto nerds zipping up my anorak. Round of applause for Jamie, because at this moment in time, I think I understand. But by the time Sheila Fogarty has pulled up her chair, I will almost certainly have lost the ability to understand or to claim that. I was going to say, based on the looks you and I were giving each other during that conversation, neither of us are going to understand this in 3 seconds. Yeah, well, do you know, there's always a whole phone in there actually to try to do it. Thank you, Sheila. You can have it. You can have that phone in. Coming up this afternoon, I'm fascinated by the idea of sergeant vaccinating. It looks like it's already happening in Blackburn. So we'll talk to John Byrne Murdoch, fantastic data analyst and reporter, who will explain what it is and why it might be helpful as we face fears around the indian variant two. I want to talk about your holiday plans again on the beach as press pause on bookings. British Airways, meanwhile, is trialling a 25 second COVID test. COVID has, as we know, left a fairly harsh legacy for the NHS. With hospitals facing a huge backlog, lives at risk, patient groups and staff warning about that they've announced their plan, or part of their plan anyway, to deal with it. What I want to know from you is what you are waiting for and if you work in the NHS. What are you looking at?