Why are corned beef tins designed the way they are?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien, you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we embark upon our weekly adventure into the unknown. A quick glance in the rearview mirror, though, if you, if you, if you are on Twitter, that tweet we took earlier from Gerald, describing how it was in response to a call from Coventry. Danny describing how the Daily Mail had essentially ruined his relationship with his grandmother because she believes a lot of the nonsense that it prints, it's gone absolutely nuts in response on Twitter. So go and have a look at that. We'll return to this on a regular basis, I suspect, but I have to try and find a slightly more upbeat way of doing it. Speaking of upbeat, this is by far the most fun we have together in a given week, and it is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you have a question lurking somewhere in the depths of your memory that you have thus far been able to secure an answer to, well, this is the best chance you will ever get. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore, even the occasional whence. You know, those newspaper pieces. Of course you do. Someone writes in and says, why do we do that? What's the origin of this? When I was doing something, something happened. Why? Generally, the goalposts are as wide as you want on this. Don't be boring. Never be boring. And I will try and guard against repetition with my incredibly young production team, who some of them were barely born when we first started doing mystery hour. I'll try and keep an eye out for questions that could be filed under hardy perennial. But you can do that a bit yourself as well, you know, don't ring in to talk about white dog poo or baby pigeons. You know, the kind of stuff that if we've been doing a question and answer based program for the best part of a decade, the likelihood of us not having done those questions before would be zero. Neil, just use your noodle. If you're new to it, just listen in for a couple of calls and you'll soon get the flavour. The best way of describing the full variety of subjects, questions, answers that we cover on this is that the people ringing in to answer need to be qualified, but only in the sense that they need to tell me how they knew that. Do you see what I mean? So one of our most frequent contributors is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. But equally, somebody could ring in with a brilliant answer. That happens to be true because they saw it on blue planet two last night. So when I say, what are your qualifications? Don't say bag of gymnastics award for. Or do say, I saw it on tv last night, or, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. It's just a question about how you know the thing. You know, what you just told us you know. Yeah. There are three final lines. Free, which is rare for six minutes after twelve. So if you've got a question, hit those numbers now. You will get through zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Anything goes within reason, as long as it's neither dull nor repetitious. We shall do whatever we can to get you on board. If you hear a question, ask to which you do know the answer. If you hear somebody asking a question and you not only know the answer, but also no, just if you know the answer, you have to ring me as well. The number remains the same. If we are impressed by both your answer and persuaded by your qualifications, you will receive a mystery our round of applause. Would you like to know what a mystery our round of applause sounds like? If your qualifications turn out to be exceptional? If, for example, we are having a conversation about space travel and you are Buzz Aldrin, or if we are having a conversation, odd though it may sound, about the design of irons and you ring in from Stockport, as someone did a few weeks ago, who happens to be an iron designer, then you will receive a ray Liotta, although they are very, very few and far between. It's a recognition of this program's slogan, which has been slightly adapted from the catchphrase of that film Field of dreams, and recorded exclusively for us by the man who delivers the catchphrase, which we've slightly adapted from Field of dreams. In field of dreams, Mister Ray Liotta. So if you bang on the money, you'll get a Ray liotta, or deota, as he pronounces it himself. Are we cool? Should we crack on anything else? Have I forgotten anything? There is one other little sound effect that Axel has used and will use over the years, but I'm not telling you what that is because if I say the word, the sound effect will be triggered. You know what the word is? It's all about semi permeable membranes. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. RJ is in Birmingham. RJ, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. A couple of weeks ago, I wondered why, when you are crying. Does your nose run? And at the time, I never bothered to google it, and I haven't bothered to google it since. And now I think it would be much more interesting if I asked the question on air and, you know, possibly a doctor who specializes in sinuses. What would that doctor be called? What would be the specialty? I don't know. I'd have to ask my cousin. She's in her final year of medicine. Well, if you did ask, if you did ask your cousin, they would say you need to speak to an ENT specialist. Do you know what? Yes. I went to see one ear, nose and throat a couple of years ago, though. I question. Okay, so, I mean, if you sort of accept that the ear, the nose and the throat are all kind of linked, and then you sort of think about the tear ducts and gravity, right? So you've got salt water moving downwards from the eye area and some of it perhaps making its way into the nasal passages. What's going to happen to your nose? And is this like a qualified answer or is this your guess? It's not a guess insofar as it's bleeding obvious. Oh, okay. So the reason why your nose runs, the reason why your nose runs when you cry is that there's shed loads of salt water swilling around your noggin and some of it's going to come down your hooter. Oh, well, I've just been embarrassed. You haven't been embarrassed at all? What, for your embarrassment? Well, you mean like a wa. No, I haven't got any, but I'll get one of these. I'm almost certainly wrong. That's the problem, isn't it? Matt's in Ashford. Matt, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. This occurred to me the other day when I was heating up some food at work where they have a commercial microwave. Yes. Why do commercial microwaves not have the spinny platy thing in them? Is this intro. I don't want to be rude, but is this intro because Beth and I haven't been working together that long. She's already shouting through the glass. You came through, but female did you on this? Not a male to get your question on board. Yeah, right. She is very nice. Yeah, very good. Very good at a job. Very professional, very good judgment, I think. Well, that's probably one for the jury to decide. She's doing a cracking job on the podcast as well, getting a lot of love in for the. For the quality of the podcast these days. Since Beth started applying her editing scalpel to them. But if you just excuse you, talk among yourselves. I'm just gonna have a quick word. Are you serious about this? What? You've always wondered, really? All right, why do my. Derivative. It's not a derivation of a phrase. Which is what? This is what I've run in before, my favorites. But I've got a microwave at home that doesn't have a spinning plate. Sorry? My domestic microwave doesn't have a spinning plate. Oh, doesn't it? Oh, that's quite a rarity, I think, in that case, but, yeah, this is. What's the purpose of the spinny plate? It's probably just progress, isn't it? Well, I don't know. Why am I even trying to answer that? We need a microwave engineer. All right, Matt, I'm sensing a radio to coming on. If there is a Ray Liotta moment in response to this question, then I will give you, in the words of the legend that is Les Dennis, I will give you the money myself. All right. I thought that was Jim Bowen. No, it was less Dennis. No, it was Les Dennis because he was your family fortunes. So somebody says something. That's a stupid answer, James. What? I'm not quite as old as you, James. The classic one was when they did name a dangerous race and you're supposed to go, oh, Grand national or the Le Mans 24 and someone hit the buzzer and said, arabs, les. Which was a deeply uncomfortable moment. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Judith is in. Bushy. Judith, question or answer? Question. I'm going to tell you straight, Judith, you're the third question up and the first two have been a bit rubbish. Oh, well, I hope this isn't. Why don't your eyelashes, people's eyelashes, go grey. All the other hair on your body goes. Goes gray, does it? All of it? Yeah. Oh, God. How frightening can go gray? Your eyelashes never go gray. Why is that? That's a nice question. Oh, thank you. That's a lovely bit. I also. I have to tell you that even if it was a rubbish question, I wouldn't tell you because you seem so charming. Oh, thank you very much. You're very welcome. So both take the compliment and the sincere. I certainly will do. That's a lovely quote. Why don't you? I mean, they fall out a lot and they're not normal hair. They're not hair like. Well, then again, your beard hair is not this your beard hair, madam, and my beard hair is not the same as your eyebrows fall out, they still go grey. They do. Eyelashes never go grey. Are you 100% certain that eyelashes never go gray? 99.9%. So. So you've never encountered any. No. No. And I've worked as a beauty therapist and I know that you're. I've never met anybody that has grey eyelashes. Is there anything you can do about ear hair? You're not allowed to ask another question. I'm not allowed to answer questions. I can only give. I can only ask a question. I can't answer one. Carry on like that, Vanderman. You'll get barred. 13 minutes after twelve. What's the point of having a beauty therapist on the program if I can't ask her about permanent solutions to the problem of encroaching ear hair? 30 minutes after twelve is the time. Can you help Judith with her eyelashes question? Or indeed with the question about microwave? Why do some microwaves have spinning plates and some don't? Faisal is embarking. Faisal, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Is sand called sand discloses between sea and land? Pardon? Say that again. Is sand called sand because it's between sea and land? Um. But it's land. Sea and land. No, but sand is land, isn't it? Yes. I didn't really think about that one, did I? Well, no. I mean, you might be right. Be great if it was true, I'd have gone for slander. Slammed sand. Slammed sand. Also. What about the Sahara desert, mate? Yeah, I didn't think of that one. Also, what about the Gobi desert, mate? He just came to me. I thought I'd phone in and off. Also, what about that stuff in bunkers on golf courses, mate. I guess that's enough. Do you know what? I'm going to carry on mocking you until someone rings in to say, I'm a professor of etymology at the University of Oxford. And young Faisal is absolutely correct. Sand was named such in 1314 by Willie William of Ludlow because there be. David dear. It was in between land and sand and sea. But I don't think that's going to happen. What? Let's put it out there and find out. You got some front. You really want to put that out? Is sand called sand because it's between the land and the sea? Yeah, I think I know the answer, Faisal. And it rhymes with blow, but I'll leave it on the board. I sort of. In a kind of charitable fashion. James O'Brien, ten till one weekdays on LBC. Just a bit slightly step away from mystery for a moment. I dropped a ball a bit in the first hour. When I was marveling over how when Ed Miliband announced land grabs and stamp duty cuts for first time buyers, the Daily Mail reported it as being millions wiped off value of house builders. And I just commented on how today exactly the same policies are being held up as evidence of what top fella Philip Hammond is after all. But I should, of course, have checked whether or not Philip Hammond announcing the same policies had wiped millions off house builders. And of course it has. Shares in house builders fell after the chancellor announced in his budget a review of unused planning permissions. Barrett Barclay went down 2.6%. Barrett down by 3.7. So there you go. You wonder why I obsess about the damage and the poison that this particular person, the editor of that newspaper, pours daily into the public discourse. There you go. When Ed Miliband does it. Oh, house builders shares have gone down. And that's when it's announced as a potential policy. When the chancellor announces it as an actual thing and shares in house builders go down, it's on the front page of the mail as a boost for housing. It's a boost for housing today when it's actually happening. It's a boost for housing. When Ed Miliband suggests it. It's knocking millions off shares in house builders. No wonder so many people are responding to that hashtag. The Daily Mail ruined my family. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Back to mystery hour. I'm hearing a lot of people telling me that they've got gray eyelashes. Kind of undermines the whole question about why your eyelashes don't go gray. Can you prove you've got a gray eye? No, it's certainly not in the post. Gross. Steve's in team Steve. Correcteem spelled with two e's. How sweet. Question or answer, Steve? Question, James. Carry on, Steve. My dad had a blood transfusion the other day. Oh, Crikey. He often gives blood as well, so that the bit of a conversation. I wonder, wonder if you end up getting your own blood back, looking it up and goes, oh, he's got some blood and storage. We give him his own back, which obviously doesn't happen. But then we went on to the subject of how long does it take the DNA in the. Because obviously your DNA is in your blood as well as other parts. We have done this before, but that's not a criticism because I haven't got a Scooby Doo what the answer was or even whether or not we got them. It's when the blood gets transfused into your own body. How long does it take before their DNA mixes with yours and then it turns into your. Only your DNA. If. If that's what. If that's what happens, I might be something a bit, kind of. Bit sciency for us, that. Because the idea that I take some blood from you and then if someone took a blood. So if you. If I'm getting a transfusion in my right arm and I'm committing a crime with my left arm and leaving some blood at the scene, is there any chance that the blood I'd leave at the scene is yours? Is what you're asking? In a way, yeah. Yeah. Whether it's a mixture of the two. Always. Whether it ever goes or. How does it. No, it's a brilliant question. I really like it. Did you hear the one a couple of weeks ago about twins born at midnight on a leap year? I did, yes. It's a bit like that, isn't it? Yeah. It's got that kind of riddly feel to it. Yeah. It's got to be. It can't. You can't stay with mixed blood otherwise. If you had, like, if you gave blood six or seven times and you received blood six, seven times, you'd have multiple people's DNA in your body. Yeah. Well, that can't be true. No. So what is true? We shall find out. We shall find out. We shall find out. I like it. I hope you dad. Is your dad all right? Yeah, he's fine. Yeah. Good stuff. Good stuff. 22 minutes after twelve, Phil is in Dorney Lake in Buckinghamshire. Phil, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Phil. The commercial microwave. Why they don't have a rotating plate. Yes. What they do, instead of the idea of the rotating plate is because you get concentrated microwave spots. So by moving the food around, you get a more even heating. But commercial ones instead they have a mode stirrer underneath. They stir the microwaves. Oh, moving the food. And is that more expensive? No, not really. But if you look. If you look at the bottom of a commercial microwave, it always has a ceramic plate. Yeah. And that's to allow the microwaves through and underneath. Mine doesn't lift that up. Mine doesn't. Well, sometimes it's above. No, mine. Mine's just a metal box, Phil, is it not got. Yours not got a plate? No, it's got no plate. No spinning, no nothing. It's just a metal box. Well, it'll have it above, then. It will be at the top. It leaves it. Leave us modester from above or below. But the commercial ones, normally it's below, under the ceramic plate. Mine's not commercial, so you can get domestic ones with no plates. Yeah, it's probably an expensive one. Is it, Joan? Probably misses O'Brien's department, Phil, not mine. Cost me a kidney. I just haven't got a wrap to pay for it yet. I don't think we're going to win any awards for this radio, but I'm very glad what I've learned about microwaves. Yeah. What are your qualifications? I'm a commercial microwave engineer. James, that's not a Rayleigh otter moment, if you were hoping it was. Oh, no, no, no. You'd have to have, like, designed microwaves in order for that to be a Rayleigh otter moment. It's good. It's strong. I'm going to give you a really good round of applause, but I mean that the bar for a ray LTA is really, really high. You don't get a Rayliotta for being a plumber and ringing in about plumbing. Do you see what I mean? Yeah. Oh, listen to him for years and years. Oh, here we go. Oh, here we go, here we go. World's smallest violin. I'm not giving him. I'm not giving him. I'm not. Otherwise it sets precedent. Give him a round of applause. Be grateful for it. Honestly, my children, 25 minutes after twelve, Debbie is in Paris. Debbie, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on. Debbie. Right. I was making corned beef stew last night and not for the first time I've wondered. You live in Paris still in those stupid tins? Stop talking. That you have to use to undo it. Have you got two pieces on your phone or is it just got a mouthpiece? No, it's just a mouthpiece. I was talking then. I was trying to interrupt you rudely and you completely ignored me. Oh, sorry. When I get on one, then I just carry on telling me. I just want to question how on earth you can be living in the culinary capital of the free world and cooking corned beef stew at home. Well, you know, when the fancy takes you, then you've got to have it, haven't you? Yeah. Oh, well, yeah. So you mean with the key? You don't mean the shape? Has it still got the key on top? Well, the shape as well. Why hasn't it moved on? I mean, I. It might have been from the wall when they didn't have things, but we've got tin openers now. You've got lids that you can. The shape I've done before, the shape is because it makes it easier to get the corned beef out of the tin. That's why they've got that weird tapered shape. I don't know why the key is on the top, because everyone's got a tin opener now, so I'm going to find out. Tin opener doesn't work on it because I tried that last night when the key went wrong. And then you got your normal tin opener out and made it with that? Opened it with that. No, it wouldn't work. So I had to get a little spoon and scoop the corned beef out. What's in your corned beef? I used to want. I dread to ask this. What is in your corned beef recipe? Sort of, briefly. Oh, mushrooms, potatoes, carrots, two oxo stock cubes, two beef ones and maybe the third one if there's no taste in it, which is normal. And if you ever say, give it a square of hp sauce that can sometimes liven stuff up a bit. What do you serve it with? Nothing. You don't know. No spuds or anything? I just have a bowl of corn beef. The potatoes are in it. Oh. And have you ever served it to any of your french friends? Yes, when I first moved here, they liked it. It went down well. It went down well. There you go. You're undermining french culinary superiority. One corned beef stew at a time. I'm going to find you an answer. Why do. Why do corned beef tins have that stupid key on them? Bon, bon, bon. Bon voyage, Debbie. Jason is in Bishop store for Jason. Question or answer? Question, sir. Carry on. Right, as you said about not winning the walls, I'm going to take it down even further. Crisps. Don't ask me about date. Don't ask me about Saturdays. Don't ask me about Saturdays. Otherwise I'm going to. I'm going to scream at the producer. Excellent. You can scream at the producer. I'm going to ask about Saturdays. Why do all expiry dates appear to be on a Saturday? Yeah, we've done it about 14 times before. Regular. Listen, I've not heard that one in a while. Really? Yeah, back in the day. Did you check the website? Did you check the archive? That's one place I didn't look. It's not true. It's largely true. It is almost always a Saturday, but that is just because it's easier to print that way. They could do it on a. On a seven day basis, but it's easier to print one date. So they choose the end of the week, the last day of the week. Yeah. I've noticed on the bigger, like your bigger, like sort of your posh, like kettley chips and them. So the ones I don't like posh crisps, do you got to be sea salt and black pepper. Well, hand on heart, you'd choose that over a walkers? Yep. Really? Unless you. Some are my walkers, actually. I've always thought that this was just sort of aspirational or social climbing. I didn't, I didn't, I don't. Never really had a munch on one of those posh crisps and thought, oh, that's nicer. Do you know what my favorite is, Jason? Seabrooks crisps from Yorkshire, which are a crinkle cut and a prawn cocktail. Seabrooks crisp is pretty close to the platonic form of crisp. I remember see Brooks when I used to live up in Manchester. And seabrooks. Ready? Salty, superior crisp. Yes, yes. And we're lucky, we're lucky we can get them down to get in multi packs down here as well. They do turn up every now and then. My wife bought me a box full off the Internet. It was a mark of love unlike any that she's ever displayed in the course of our nearly 18 years of marriage. You can't argue that one, can you? You cannot. And I'll get you. I'll leave it on the board because, you know, you've made me think fondly of crisps, which, you know, that's a favor by anybody standards. 29 minutes after twelve. Why do crisps all expire on the same day? You get yourself a free round of applause for that. When you have a blood transfusion, what happens? I mean, because obviously you can't be tooling around the place with two different types of blood in your system. Is sand called sand because it's between the sea and the land? I know what you're thinking. Is there any quality control at all on mystery hour this week? And why don't eyelashes go great? Except apparently they do. Might be room for some more questions. James O'Brien. Ten till one weekdays on LBC. I'm just chuckling at a tweet. Don't politicize crisps, mate. You'll have to check out Twitter to see what that is. In response to Mr. Jamesob is my Twitter address. And the unlikely event that you want to keep in touch with me when I'm not on the radio, mister. What's going on? Questions that need answers. Why is sand called sand? Is it because it's between the sea and the land? Oh, bless you, Faisal. Unlikely, though. When you have a blood transfusion, what's going on? At what point did two become one? I bet you didn't think I could quote the Spice Girls, did you, in a conversation about blood transfusions? And what was the question? Oh, the crisps and expiry dates. Why do they all expire on Saturdays? Zero. 345-606-0973 and staying with food. In fact, we could practically put a picnic together. Why did corned beef tin still have that silly key on top? Darren is in Hammersmith. Darren, question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Carry on, mate. The blood question. Oh, yeah. What they do, apparently, is they take out anything that isn't a red blood cell with some kind of solution. So then it's just universal? It can be accepted, apparently. So you couldn't get any DNA out of the stuff that's put into someone in a blood transfusion? No, no, it's all cleaned out. They take it out. Who's qualifications? My wife's an immunologist and I asked her. I mean, I sense your wife would provide us with a more detailed answer. She's probably cringing a bit in the binary nature of right and wrong. I think you're almost certainly right. Yeah, I know you're definitely right. But with the greatest love and respect, I'm not sure I understand any more about the issue than I did before. You gave your correct answer. So they clean out all the DNA related stuff. I see. They just get rid of it. What do they use? What do they use? I don't know. Tweezers. They got them injection things. They test the wife. So. So when we get a blood transfer, we got anyone else on the line? Hang on. Stay there, because I can't be. I'm not taking it secondhand. Tyree is in Ealing. Tyree just. Just up the road, Hammersmith, to healing. You could practically thrash this one out in person. Question or answer, Tyree? Answer. Come on, then. So two things. First of all, red blood cells don't have DNA in to begin with. That's what he said. That's kind of what Darren said. I think that's what he said. So they don't wash it out, but they don't have them in to begin with. Right. And then second thing is that your red blood cells have a life cycle, so they only live in your body for about 100 days. Right. You would never. But do they? When I give blood, that blood could be used to. For a DNA test. They could identify my presence at a crime scene if I left some blood there. Well, yes. Don't you watch Colombo? But they. There's no DNA in your red blood cell. No, but they must. This is what Darren's right. They must somehow separate the red blood cells from the rest of the plasma and stuff. Yeah, from the platelets. Platelets, yeah, yeah. How do they do that? No, no, some. No, what it is, is sometimes they. Sometimes they separate it to get platelets out and sometimes they just use a bag of red blood cells of blood. So it depends what the patient needs. So if that. So just blood. So they could take it out of one patient and stick it in another one? Yeah. Without any changes to it at all? Well, no, they test it all first. Yeah, for compatibility and what have you, but that. So how long after being put inside me would it be my blood rather than my donors blood? It wouldn't. It would just die after a hundred days. Yeah. So I could. Theoretically. I just be too dull, mate. My head hurts now. No, but you wouldn't even know because it has no DNA. It. So you'd never know who. Then how can they do a DNA test if I leave blood at a crime scene? Good question. Another question. Darren, what do you reckon, mate? Well, I reckon I'm right, mate. I'll go away like a dog. You like with a dog? With a bone. You're like a dog with a bone, aren't you? It's my first one. I've never got through. All right, but Tyree, did Darren got anything wrong? I don't think Darren got anything actually wrong, did he? Yeah, fine, he can have it. Well, you can share it. Actually, no, let's look at that. Darren, you're a new man. That's lovely, mate. Yeah, we'll share it. Although I'm not sure either of you are making any sense. I just. I'm losing the will. I'm losing the will to live. Give him a round of applause. Seriously. 39 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you can answer any of the questions that are still on the board. Or indeed, if you've got a question of your own. Corned beef crisps. Kind of done the blood transfusions. Is sand called sand because it's in between sea and land? Do I. Why don't eyelashes go grey? Expiry dates are crisps. Why are they always on a Saturday? Why do corned beef still have keys? Rani is in Weybridge. Ronnie, question or answer? Well, actually, James, that question about eyelashes is a non question. Oh, carry on. Because the hair on my head is going brown, is going grey. Sorry. Yes, I'm black haired. Yes, it's all going grey. And so are my eyelashes. I have heard from a lot of people you've met, very cleverly, just snuck in to get yourself a free round of applause. I've heard from a lot of people that they have grey eyelashes. No, no, I know, but anyone could have rung it, because I've already said on air that lots of people are telling me that they've got grey eyelashes. So anyone at that point ringing together? Round of applause. I was just ringing to confirm. What you trying to do? Some banter. Okay. You must be desperate today, are you? Well, yes, I am now. I'm tempted to withhold your round of applause out of petulance. Yeah. And peak. I might withhold it out of peak. Axel, you decide. Does she deserve one or not? You're not getting one. Give her one. Stop it. You're meaner than me. Stop it. Oh, I felt weird then. It was quite discombobulating, actually. I had no idea that you had such callous characteristics lurking beneath that friendly bonhomie exterior, Ronnie. Thank you. And that is the answer. Why don't eyelashes go great? They do. I've got one. Dave is in Doncaster. Dave, question or answer? Answer. Answer. James. Carry on, Dave. It's the corn beef. Oh, yes. Why do they still put a tin on it? It's because you open the tin in a different way that you would normally open a tin, a tin omnibus from the top. And most tin omelets would normally leave a lip around the top. Yes. You. You'll also notice that a combative is tapered. I know why it's tapered. I know why it's tapered. But take me back to the top. Well, if we open the tin from the top, that will leave a lip around the top end of the tin, which will mean that when you insert your knife or other such to get the meat out of the tin, you will break the meat up because it will trap on the lip. Yes. Are you with me? I am. So the way it works now, when you take it off, when you key it off, there's no lip, so you can empty it out in one big piece. Exactly that. What about dog food, though? Dog food? Well, it doesn't matter about dog food. You break that up as normal. But you don't. You can get your dog food out of the tin in one big lump, can't you? I don't know. No, I don't know either. Why did I say dog food. I have no idea why I brought dog food into it. What are your qualifications, Dave? Um, I eat corned beef now and again. And you've. You've pondered it? That's about it. That's about it, really. You've considered it? You've considered it? Well, I'm a. I'm an extremely practical person and like, like you question it, it's just something different. I would naturally ask myself, why is that different? Why exactly? You're like that. I mean, that is like. You're like mystery hour embodied or personified. Indeed, indeed. That must mean I get a railway office. Really? No, don't be ridiculous. 1243. Chris is in Shaftesbury, endorsing Chris. Question or answer? Hello, James. The question, please carry on. Where does. I'm going to get the origin question for the day. Oh, yeah. Where does the phrase wolf whistling comes from? We all know what it is when you're showing a bit of a attraction to somebody. Yeah. I'm not going to actually do it on air because I don't know how that will sound. But everyone knows what it means, what it is. But why is it called a wolf whistle? It's spelt the same as a wolf wolf. I checked that. No, you're not. No, it's all going very well, but, yeah. So why is it called a wolf whistle? Because this doesn't sound anything like a howl or anything like that. I think it does. Well, have you. Well, I've been to do two house. Do two house? Yeah. Why? I mean, obviously it doesn't sound exactly. Doesn't sound exactly like. No, but they don't. It doesn't sort of go up and down a wolf's house. If you did two together. Do two together in quick succession. What, now on it? Yeah. No, no, that's a whistle. Do two wolf howls. Well, I can't do a wolf. Of course you can do a wolf. I'll do an impression of a wolf howl. Obviously you can have a go, but do you got do them in very quick succession? Quicker perhaps, than would happen in the wild. I really not going to do that on air. You have to do that on air. You can't ring in with it. We had a bloke once, Chris, just to make you feel more comfortable. We had a bloke once, we rang in with a question about whether pigeons had regional accents, and he believed that they did, and I got him to do a Geordie pigeon and then a pigeon, a Cockney pigeon. So if he can do, we must dig that out. From the archive. Turned out it wasn't ridiculous. So if he can do that, the least you can do is two very quick wolf howls in quick succession. Well, the howls are quite drawn out. So how do the shorter ver. The shorter version would be. And if you turn that into a whistle, it. There's no other possible answer to this question, is there? Well, that's why I'm coming to you. Yeah, well, I'm saying there's no other possible. I should get a round of applause for actually getting you what is happening this week. You're a millennial, are you? Sense of entitlement among you people is incredible. You don't get. You don't get around for trying to have banter with you. I give a round of applause. What's the origin of wolf in wolf whistle? Not the origin of the whistle, but the presence of the word wolf. And I want a definitive answer. If it isn't anything to do with wolves howling, I'll be very, very surprised. But still, Chris deserves a definitive answer for the quality of his banter, if not his question. It's 1245. There are some phone eyes free, actually. So the ones that need answers. Sand crisps. We've done corned beef. Why do all crisps expire on a Saturday? Why is sand called sand? And I've forgotten Chris's question. I was too busy reeling from his back. Wolf. Wolf. Why is it a wolf whistle? What's it got to do with wolves? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you're very quick, you can get another question on the board as well. Since I've been taking the mickey out of the quality of the questions beth's been putting through, she's now sort of left me without any. She's wiped them all off the board so that when I say, why haven't we got more questions? She'll go, well, ask yourself why there aren't any questions on the board. Could it have anything to do with the fact that you've been taking the mickey out of all the questions that I've just put through? So that's a sort of roundabout way of saying you probably get a question on if you're quick. James O'Brien tantal one weekdays on LBC. I know I was right about the crisps, but if you want to get yourself a cheap round of applause, you could just look it up on the own mystery hour archive. Ring in and answer it yourself. Seriously, you may as well. Why is a wolf whistle called a wolf whistle? I presume it's because it sounds like a wolf howl, but Chris was having none of it. So if you can go definitive on that, you need qualifications. Why is sand called sand? Is it because it just gets less funny every time I repeat it? This question. Faisal, mate, what were you thinking of? Sand. Is it called sand because it's in between sea and land? Which I said. Have you considered the Sahara desert in your question? And we've done the eyelashes and we've done the microwaves. We're pretty good. Pretty strong room for a couple more. The number you need, if you've got one, or if you can answer any of those questions that I have just reminded you of, then zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I can't see anything now. The screen's gone funny. Are we putting someone through? Is Jahan there? Jahan is in. No, Paul is in Birmingham. Jahan, I'll be with you imminently. Paul, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Paul. It's an answer to the wolf whistle and the answer is it's Looney Tunes. The cartoon people. Shut up. They gave us so much at the turn of the century that got into national and into society as a whole. Characters of wolves would always be boorish characters who would whistle at attractive female characters. Right. And it became known as, like in little red Riding Hood type kind of thing. Yeah. I mean, that sort of thing. They all. Looney Tunes is also the responsible people for one of the other. Michelangelo. I don't care about anything else. I only care about wolf whistling. Stop going off piste. So can you prove. Can you know, we can't go double bubble? Are you. Are you sure? Can you prove it? Um, well, it's something I looked into when I was a student. I was learning. I was trying to be an actor. Yeah. And I learned a lot about comedy from cartoons. And in looking at it, I found out all of this wonderful information about things like shaving, a haircut, being the knock on the door. Because it was in a cartoon. What came first, the chicken or the egg? Surely men were going around wolf whistling before a wolf did it in a cartoon. No. Well, this is the point. They weren't. They were whistling at people because they were boorish men. But it became known as wolf whistling because of the cartoon. Wasn't known as anything back at the time. It was just people doing it. But then it was a wolf whistle. Can you prove it? Nothing to do with the sound of a wolf? No. I'm going to take a couple more on this. I'm going to go. I think we're going to go a bit collective on this one, because at the moment, I just. I'm not. I'm not convinced. Paul, I'm not going to lie to you. Well, I mean, it wasn't the only thing that they did. That going to stop it. You're doing it again. I've told you not to go off pieced. Catherine is in Camberley. Paul, you can stay there if you want, because you might get a shower in a round of applause. Catherine is in Camberley. Catherine, what do you think? Well, yeah, he's not wrong there, but I think it goes. So what are you doing here, then? I don't think it's a sound like he says, if you go back to fairy tales and their original meaning, the wolf was always a predatory male. This got picked up later in cartoons of the thirties. And so he's right. People who used to make sounds at women became known as a wolf whistle because it was a predatory male. And I think he's right. It goes right back to fairy stories. He's not going back to fairy stories, he's going back to Looney Tunes. Yeah, but I think Looney Tunes picked up on this, all this fairy tale mythology, it's got a deeper meaning, really. Yeah. And then Looney Tunes have picked that up. The image of. So before a wolf in a cartoon whistled like that, no man went at a woman. I think he was right that men always done it, a certain type of man, but they usually are predatory men. Yeah, it's kind of. I think the fairy tales have fed into everything from the beginning and that people actually forget or the original, sinister meaning of the fairy tale character. So it's got nothing to do with the howl? I don't think so, no, because really it doesn't. I mean, I know what you mean, but it's not really. You don't hear it and think, oh, my God, is there a wolf in the area? Well, no, because it's whistling. Wolves can't whistle. But I think he's. He's right. What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? Well, just. I'm a writer, so I've got a real long interest in fairy tales and the origins of fairy tales and their meanings and how it's sort of fed into the culture. So if that's a qualification that seems reasonable to me. There's something about. About boats, I think. No, no worries. Deaf boats. All right, I'm going to give you a round of applause to share it's been a slightly. Been a slightly odd mystery out of this. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing, but it's been friendly. Anne's in knockout in Kent. And what can I do for you, Anne? Corned beef. Oh, thank you. Don't mind if I do. Tin with key attached? Yes. Peel the middle of the tin. Yes. Because while you're at sea and bobbing about and your husband, the skipper, is demanding food, it's much easier. Secondly, you can slide it out because it's tapering. Yeah, I knew that bit. And the top doesn't have a lip on it, but the question was, why does it still have keys on it now? And that was. So it's the second bit. We don't go sailing. No, we don't. Who are you, Rod Stewart. You last go sailing? When did you last go? So stop talking over me when I'm talking over you. Anne, when did you last go sailing? Well, I'm now 82, so I suppose when I was 78. Thank you. You're so welcome. Give her another one. Give her 82. Don't give her 82. Sheila's got a show to do. Thank you. Jahan is in Bermuda. Question or answer? Jahan. Question. James. Carry on. How is life in Bermuda? It's not too bad. It was raining yesterday, but the sun's out today, which is really nice. Thank God for that. I was worried about you. What's your question? You're not going to get an answer. We've only got a minute left. Oh, go on. I asked you this two years ago. So today is thanksgiving in the US and every year the president pardons the turkey. I want to know what happens to those turkeys. Did you see the footage of the current president pardoning the turkey? I did not. He said, as he approached it, he said, am I allowed to touch it? Which is actual evidence that he considers turkey to be more demanding of respect than women. Because when it's women, you can just march right in and grab them. You can do anything you want. When you're famous, you can grab them by the what's it? But when it's a turkey, he actually said, am I allowed to touch it? So with a turkey, he wants permission to touch it with a woman. He boasts about not seeking permission before sexually assaulting her. Who'd have thought you could have brought some politics in at the back end of mystery, the answer to your question is that they all live on a farm in Connecticut. Is this the truth? Absolutely not. How do you know James made it up. I just made it up. But I've only got four more seconds before Sheila takes over. All I've got to do is style this out and then we're over the line. Next year. Next year, Jahan. Next year. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear, if you haven't already heard her sniggering in the background, clarify. When I said terrible radio, I meant constant applause would be terrible radio, not mystery. I was terrible. No, it's my internal. Clarify that. It's my internal dialogue, though, whenever I'm on the radio. Is it right, mind? Shrieks of horror that's the difference. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.